Cape Town - Newlands Cricket Grounds will on Tuesday evening host the first ever game of the new SA20 League to a sold-out crowd. Local team MI Cape Town will be doing battle in a Cape derby with the Paarl Royals. General stand tickets at the ground sold out at the weekend, leaving only premium seating available from Western Province Cricket Club in the private members’ club pavilion.  To add to the thrilling cricket action, award-winning performers Master KG and Sho Madjozi will headline the entertainment for the inaugural match. Gates open at 2.30pm with the performance beginning at 4pm. The City of Cape Town said it was delighted to welcome the contingent of local and international players, supporting staff and fans for what’s shaping up to be an “explosive four weeks” of twenty-over cricket. “The fact that this evening’s game at Newlands is sold out is testament to the strong cricket fan base in our beautiful city. We would like to call on the passionate Cape Town cricket community to show support for MI Cape Town for all the home games.  “The City of Cape Town services will be deployed to ensure that supporters are able to get to games efficiently, while also managing non-event traffic flow,” said the City’s mayoral committee member for safety and security, JP Smith. The first ball will be bowled at 5.30pm. The City reminded fans, residents and motorists that Campground Road would be closed from the corner of Campground and Mariendahl roads to Palmyra Road until 10pm. Fans can purchase premium WPCC tickets for R300 and WPCC suites tickets can be purchased at “A Gate” (Gate 10) at Newlands stadium. Wheelchair access is available at gates. 2, 23. Parking:  –  Groote Schuur High School Upper: all parking will be reserved, access will be by parking ticket only. –  Groote Schuur High School Lower/Vredenhof will be reserved parking with limited unreserved parking. The limited unreserved paid parking will payable in cash on access. –  Groote Schuur Primary School: unreserved payable in cash on access. –  San Souci Girls High School: unreserved parking payable in cash on access. E-Hailing services: –  There will be a dedicated, secure, drop-off  and collection point at the Newlands Swimming Pool.  Cape Times