Cape Town – Five people were killed and several others injured when a truck crashed into taxis and pedestrians at the Peter and Hendrik Potgieter Road intersection in Poortview, Roodepoort. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring confirmed the incident yesterday (Thursday) afternoon. “Five people were killed and several others injured when a truck crashed into several taxis and pedestrians in Poortview, Roodepoort.  “ER24 paramedics and several other services arrived on the scene shortly before 2pm to find several vehicles, including a truck and several taxis, on the side of the road. “Numerous patients were scattered all around,” Meiring said. Medics assessed the patients and found three women and a man had already succumbed to their injuries. “Nothing could be done for them, and they were declared dead,” Meiring said. Nine other patients were tended to on the scene – four were found in critical conditions, while five others had sustained minor to moderate injuries. “Medics treated the patients and provided the critically injured with advanced life support interventions. Unfortunately, after some time, one of the critical patients succumbed to their injuries and was declared dead,” Meiring said. Once treated, the remaining patients were transported to various hospitals for further care. “The exact details surrounding this incident are unknown, but local authorities were on the scene for further investigations,” he said. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst confirmed they, along with multiple other medical, rescue and police officials, responded to the collision. Herbst said that reports indicated that a truck, three taxis and a car were involved in the collision. “Medics assessed the scene and found that one person had sustained critical injuries, four people sustained moderate injuries and four others had sustained minor injuries and five people had sadly died on the scene. “Circumstances leading up to the incident will be investigated by the relevant authorities,” Herbst said. Cape Times