Cape Town -  Investment promotion agency Wesgro has announced a R393 million economic boost expected through conference bids in Cape Town. Together with the Western Cape Convention Bureau, Wesgro said it secured 27 bids over the past year. “Following the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the destination will welcome an estimated 20 000 delegates from the bids secured over the next few years, with an estimated R393.4m to be injected into the local economy as a result of the secured business events,” Wesgro said. The conferences secured span aviation, engineering, entrepreneurship, green economy, investment, medical, manufacturing, veterinary science, as well as the tech sector. Conferences secured with a focus on the African continent include the Africa Fintech Summit, which took place end of last year in November; the All Africa Exhibition, Africa Partnership for Growth; Africa Investment Indaba; and the Chiropractic Association of South Africa Congress and African Chiropractic Federation AGM. Finance and Economic Opportunities MEC, Mireille Wenger, said the economic boost and job creation facilitated by large events was crucial to the growth of the local business tourism sector. “We applaud Wesgro, and the strides that have been made to keep Cape Town and the Western Cape on the map as a premium business events destination. Every visitor is a potential investor. We look forward to hosting delegates from around the globe – providing us with the opportunity to showcase the capabilities of our local industries spanning a wide range of sectors,” said Wenger. Wesgro chief executive, Wrenelle Stander, said: “I am proud to announce that large conferences are back. Business events from both the domestic and international markets have tremendous economic impact for the province.  “Moving beyond the economic boost, the events secured bring immeasurable value to our status as a knowledge hub on the continent – reaffirming our place as the destination where great minds meet.” Cape Times