Cape Town - In at least half of domestic violence and abuse complaints received in the metro, women refused to lodge criminal complaints against their abusers, a decision gender-based violence activists said was due to fear of repercussions from the perpetrator. In the past week, metro police officers responded to at least six domestic violence complaints, but in half of these,the complainants did not want to pursue the matter, according to the City. The incidents occurred in Wesbank, Leiden in Delft, Eersteriver, two incidents in Tafelsig and one in Eastridge. Mayco member for safety and security, JP Smith, said there was little they could do when a victim refused to register a complaint in order to open a case. “The City responds to these incidents where resources allow, but it is very disheartening to see how many people refuse to lay charges when officers arrive on scene. “In the past week, metro police officers responded to at least six domestic violence and abuse complaints, but in half of those cases, the complainants didn’t want to lay charges. And, while we understand that the dynamics are often complex, there is very little that can be done to assist otherwise,” he said. Metro police spokesperson, Ruth Solomons, said: “The reasons are varied, but include the relationship between the alleged aggressor and the victim/s (could be a close relative like a child or sibling or parent). Fear of further victimisation too is a factor, and staff have also come across cases where the victims do not want to press charges because the aggressor is the breadwinner or makes some financial contribution to the household or family.” Director at the Saartjie Baartman Centre for Women and Children, and executive committee member of the National Shelter Movement, advocate Bernadine Bachar, said women subjected to domestic violence might refuse to lodge criminal complaints due to fear for their children’s welfare. “They may also lack confidence in the SAPS’s ability to protect them, or they may be unaware of the fact that they can apply for a protection order barring the perpetrator from the common home. “Raising awareness of the legal and social remedies available to survivors is critical to their empowerment. “The economic empowerment of women and bridging of the gender gap will ensure that women are not forced to live with abusers due to financial constraints,” she said. This while Ilitha Labantu spokesperson, Siyabulela Monakali, said in some instances the victims were dependent on the perpetrator for their wellbeing. Anti-crime activist, Hanif Loonat, said: “Of every 10 domestic violence cases, three will be reported and possibly one of those three gets withdrawn by the victim. Domestic violence is mainly a national competency therefore needs to be looked at differently. The metro only gets 15% of domestic violence cases. Much of it goes unreported.” President Cyril Ramaphosa meanwhile condemned gender-based violence and femicide while delivering the party’s annual January 8 statement on Sunday. “Increasing lawlessness, criminality and violence creates a situation in which women and children live in fear, not only in the streets of their towns and villages but also in their homes. “Noting that gender-based violence and femicide is a pandemic that should be confronted with the necessary determination and appropriate resourcefulness, the ANC calls for the intensification of the implementation of the National Strategic Plan on Gender-Based Violence and Femicide,” the president said. Cape Times