Cape Town - A children’s rights and anti-GBV organisation says it is deeply concerned about teachers violating the rights and dignity of pupils by means of sexual violations. This comes as a former teacher, David Price, 76, who had taught at the Western Province Preparatory School in Cape Town, is accused of sexual assault, and will have to answer to charges in a South African court for sexually abusing a pupil nearly 40 years ago. Price has been hauled before a South African court after he reportedly challenged his extradition to the UK on similar charges. Ilitha Labantu spokesperson, Siyabulela Monakale, said: “We are deeply concerned by cases of this nature, where educators violate the dignity of students. Cases of this nature occur far too often, and the perpetrators who commit these heinous crimes operate without impunity, leaving the survivors with deeply embedded emotional and psychological scars. We urge that our justice system use the full might of the law to ensure that justice is served for the victims of these crimes and that the perpetrator is brought to book.” Price is expected in court on February 1, after a male student came forward with information relating to the alleged abuse inflicted on him. Police spokesperson, FC van Wyk, confirmed Price’s arrest. “A 76-year-old male was arrested by Claremont FCS investigating officer on a charge of sexual assault. He appeared in court and next court date is February 1. “The incident happened between 1984 and 1987,” said Van Wyk. According to reports, the arrest came after the UK’s BBC 4 channel aired a programme in which Price was named as one of a number of teachers who sexually abused pupils at some of the country’s most respected boarding schools. The investigation by Alex Renton, a former pupil at the prestigious Ashdown House in Sussex, detailed alleged instances of sexual abuse by the teachers, and after the programme aired and learning of Price challenging his extradition, it led to a South African pupil contacting local police about his alleged abuse. Enquiries to the National Prosecuting Authority had not been answered by deadline  on Thursday. Cape Times