Cape Town - Another questionable senior appointment at the Kannaland Municipality has raised concerns. This time opposition parties are up in arms following the recent appointment of Petrus Roodtman who has served time in prison for rape. Roodtman was arrested for the rape of a 25-year-old woman and has been previously found guilty of submitting fraudulent travel claims during his tenure at the Eden District Municipality, according to reports.  He was released a few years ago and has emerged as among new senior officials recently appointed at the municipality. Roodtman is believed to have been appointed as the Town Coordinator for Calitzdorp. DA Constituency Head in Kannaland Eleanor Bouw-Spies expressed their concerns and disapproval of the appointment. “We do not condone any form of violence and believe that our public officials should be exemplary members of society. I have raised the issue of appointments in the mayor’s office which include Mr Roodtman when Kannaland Municipality appeared before the Cogta Parliamentary committee in November and I am still awaiting a response. Our residents deserve quality services and therefore capable officials to deliver to them,” Bouw-Spies said. A councillor in Kannaland said Roodtman’s appointment was unconstitutional and unlawful. “There is clearly no merit in the appointment of Roodtman, which in our view, amounts to the sheltering of a criminal in a senior position in the municipality. His appointment does not inspire public confidence and is totally irresponsible,” the official said. Roodtman did not respond to questions on Tuesday. Kannaland Municipality Acting Municipal Manager Hendrik Barnard declined to comment. “Unfortunately I will not discuss personnel matters with the media. If you insist on an answer you can apply at the municipality for the information,” he said. A source close to the municipality claimed Roodtman was an ally of the current Kannaland mayor Jeffrey Donson. “Roodtman was a high-ranking Icosa leader before he was jailed for rape. He was previously an Icosa councillor in Kannaland and good friend of Donson. Before his prison sentence he also served as IDP Manager of Kannaland Municipality,” he said. The ANC’s Cameron Dugmore said a national intervention was needed in Kannaland. “The National Assembly portfolio committee on local government has already had a virtual hearing where many serious governance issues were raised. They will follow up with a physical visit to Kannaland early this year. “As the ANC we want to bring stability to Kannaland and focus on resolving the water crisis, service delivery backlogs and local economic development. We will do so from the opposition benches for as long as we need to. The irony is that as the ANC took a decision after 2021 elections to work with Icosa but withdrew after Icosa insisted on appointing Jeffrey Donson as mayor and not one of their other councillors. It’s time for Icosa to clean its house, such appointments are simply unjustifiable,” said Dugmore. Cape Times