Cape Town - Five people were killed and six others injured when the driver of the vehicle they were in allegedly lost control and the car rolled along the N1 in De Doorns on Saturday night. ER24’s Ineke van Huyssteen said when paramedics arrived at the scene at around 11pm, they found people lying across the road and a vehicle off the roadway. “On further assessment, paramedics found three people who had sustained fatal injuries and were declared dead at the scene. “Six other patients were found in a critical condition, while another two had sustained serious injuries. Advanced life support interventions were immediately initiated, but unfortunately, despite the best efforts of all involved, two of the critically injured patients also succumbed to their numerous injuries,” van Huyssteen said. ER24 paramedics, Metro EMS and two other medical services at the scene treated the patients and transported them to hospital for further medical care. Provincial Transport and Public Works spokesperson, Jandre Bakker, said among the dead was a baby boy. “According to the passengers in the vehicle the driver lost control, which caused the vehicle to roll. “All role players including EMS, fire and rescue attended the scene,” said Bakker. Hours later, on Sunday morning, another single vehicle crash incident was reported, wherein a passenger of a vehicle was killed and the driver injured. The vehicle was travelling towards the direction of Leeu Gamka to Beaufort West. The cause of the crash was still being investigated. “This is disheartening to the department after a successful festive season and we plead to motorists to always abide by the rules of the road. Never speed and always buckle up, never overload or drink and drive. We also urge passengers to never distract a driver,” said Bakker. The incidents at the weekend came as the acting provincial MEC for Mobility, Ivan Meyer, was expected to present the festive season 2022/23 road safety report on Monday Last week Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula released the national 2022-'23 road safety report, which showed 1 451 people died on the roads - a 13.9% reduction compared to the 1 685 deaths recorded during the previous festive season. The Western Cape saw a decline from 207 the previous year to 131. Cape Times