Cape Town - They are often the last line of defence between life or death for many beachgoers, especially during the summer holidays. It was this spirit of putting their lives on the line for others that inspired Xavier Sebastian to become a lifeguard. He was still in primary school when he witnessed something life changing while walking along Macassar beach. A man struggling in rip currents and there were lifeguards who came to his rescue.  The 23-year-old is now a lifeguard at the Macassar Surf Lifesaving Club, a non-profit organisation that promotes lifesaving and lifesaving skills among the youth. “After I saw how they rushed in the water and saved someone’s life, I was in awe. I had never seen anything like that at the time. I said to myself I want to try this, it seems like a lot of fun. The next Saturday I came to the captain of the club and told him I want to join the club,” he said. Sebastian, who is from Macassar, has since been involved in numerous rescue operations, and recently on New Year's Day he saved the life of a young woman who got in trouble in the water while swimming with her boyfriend. “We were sitting on the main side of the beach and someone came running down to us and told us that there was someone in trouble in the water. We went in and rescued her. She was struggling to breath so we gave her a few (chest) compressions and then called the emergency services,” he said. The City of Cape Town’s Recreation and Parks Department has deployed about 600 lifeguards at 21 swimming pools and 29 beaches, tidal pools and stretches of coast this season. They are assisted by Western Province Lifesaving, law enforcement services and the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) among others. For Ridhaa Kuys it was the love of swimming that motivated him to join the life saving club. “I got really into swimming when I was around 13 years old. My cousins were part of this club years before as well, so my uncle also encouraged me to join,“ he said. The 24-year-old said although the job is fun, it requires a lot of discipline. “We start work at 9.30am, set up the flags and check out what the current is like. We sign in for work and our days start from there. The way we teach life saving here is discipline first. Our goal is when we go home, we don't go home empty handed, we go home with a skill. I think that's what makes the job more amazing,” he said. Dillon Abrahams from Eerste River has been involved in over 20 rescue operations. He joined the life saving club with his twin brother, Clayton -both 21 years old. The twins had worked on three private beaches before joining the club. “I started swimming when I was in Grade 5 and later joined a swimming club. That is where I learnt about life saving. I love being part of this, it is my passion,” Abrahams said. He said the mistake people make when in the ocean was underestimating its powers. Clayton meanwhile dreams of joining the fire and rescue team one day. Community activist Russell Williams said the life guards at Macassar beach were well trained and exceptional. “What we do however lack is the facilities, even a clubhouse for the life guards.  If the city could look into that, this will assist the life guards a great deal,” said Williams. Macassar councillor Peter Helfrich said they had not recorded any drownings on Macassar beach in 12 years. “I am extremely proud of our lifeguards. Many sacrifices are accompanied by (the job) like keeping fit and training for long hours to do so. It’s about making sure that you are at all times punctual and vigilant to prevent drownings. I have also closely been involved with Lifesaving since 1999 and have trained many of the lifeguards doing duty at the club during the time I served as the coach, swim instructor, club captain and chairperson,” he said. City mayco member for community services and health, Patricia Van der Ross said lifeguards fulfil a critical role in ensuring public safety - one that is often overlooked. “This season thus far, they have been responsible for numerous rescues and are often the last defence between life or death for so many of our beachgoers,” she said. Cape Times The Cape Times’ Big Friday Read is a series of feature articles focusing on the forgotten issues that often disappear in the blur of fast news cycles, and where we also feature the everyday heroes who go out of their way to change the lives of others in their communities. * To nominate a hero or raise a forgotten issue you would like us to feature in our Big Friday Read, email ctnews.@inl.co.za