Cape Town - The police have arrested a 19-year-old man in connection with the rape of a 75-year-old woman in her home in Riversdale, George on Sunday. It is alleged that the elderly woman was at her home when the suspect, who is known to her, assaulted and raped her. She was taken to hospital for medical care and is still hospitalised, according to the police. Police spokesperson Christopher Spies said the suspect was tracked down and arrested following the incident. “The suspect remains in custody and is expected to make his first court appearance in the Riversdale Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. “The Mossel Bay family violence, child protection and sexual offences (FCS) unit is investigating this matter,” he said. Philisa Abafazi Bethu Women’s Centre executive director Lucinda Evans called for the suspect to receive a lengthy sentence. “One would want to ask the question why are young men behaving the way they are behaving. “But it’s also very evident of how government deals with violence. “There are no real consequences,” she said.  SACP in the Southern Cape district secretary Langa Langa said they were shocked by the incident.  “The party condemns any abuse of defenceless and vulnerable citizens of our society. We commend the police for their swift move to arrest the suspect and we further call on the state to deny bail for the suspect,” Langa said. Meanwhile, a 65-year-old woman was murdered in her home in Joubert Street, Paarl on Saturday evening. Police spokesperson Wesley Twigg said the deceased was found in her bedroom with an open wound to the back of her head. “The victim was declared deceased by medical personnel. The motive for the attack is yet to be established. The suspect/s fled the scene and are yet to be arrested,” he said. Anti-crime activist Hanif Loonat said: “It is unfortunate that our vulnerable aged citizens fall victim to unscrupulous members of the communities. “Many of whom are on drugs and are desperate to maintain their addiction by stealing from the vulnerable members who are close to them. “These elderly people are scared to speak out as they do not want these individuals arrested for obvious reasons. Most of the perpetrators are known to the victims.” Anyone with information on the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111, or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times