Cape Town - Picking up the pieces of the devastation that ripped through Wupperthal after a ruinous blaze four years ago, is the story of hope and renewal for the town, which was nearly razed to the ground, leaving 200 people destitute. Like a phoenix from the ashes, the Moravian Church missionary town, found nestled deep between majestic rock and mountain formations in the Cederberg, tells its story almost symbolically, with homes being rebuilt according to its historical and heritage status, with brilliant white painted buildings and thatched roofs. But the pain and memories of the inferno remains etched in the minds of its victims. “You can never forget it.” Seated in her temporary housing structure on a rugby field as you enter Wupperthal, Margaret Layman, 75, said while she had rebuilt her life since the fire occurred, the memories of the day were as fresh “as yesterday”. “I am very happy that we have been looked after by good Samaritans who have reached out to our community and who have ensured that we can still live decently while we wait for our homes to be restored. “After the fire, so many organisations have helped us after we lost everything. “If it had not been for their donations, I can’t even begin to think where we would find ourselves now. We would still be homeless, vagrants. We can only thank God,” said Layman. Layman has lived in Wupperthal for more than 30 years after she moved to the area to look after her late mother. Recalling the day of the fire, Layman said: “Many times when I close my eyes, it’s like I can still see the fire. All you saw was smoke and fire. You can never forget it. “I was awoken by screaming that afternoon. I was inside my home when I heard people calling me, saying that I needed to get out and my house was already on fire. “I ran out and I saw my home in flames. People were scrambling to get their belongings but not much could be salvaged.  The fire took everything; all I could think of was to grab my gas tank so that it wouldn’t explode,” said Layman. The fire had caused considerable damage. It took with it 53 homes, a community hall, café/shop/storage building, a general shop building and hostel structures, confirmed Cederberg Municipality spokesperson, Anthony Mlata. “Fifty-three houses were affected by the fire in December 2018. Currently not all the houses have been restored, but more than 40 houses are restored to date. Unfortunately, the municipality weren’t able to provide funding for the rebuilding or reconstruction of the affected homes and other structures in Wupperthal. “The funds to rebuild the homes are financed by the Rupert Foundation. WATCH: #BigFridayRead Wupperthal resident Thomas Waldeck, tells of how the fire razed a number of buildings at the missionary station community. Waldeck said it's a miracle that despite a raging fire metres away from their church, it had no damage in 2018. Video:@ChevonBooysen pic.twitter.com/UI4AVB1Aih The provincial housing department assisted with the temporary housing/ structures for the affected persons,” said Mlata. Resident Thomas Waldeck said the devastation of the fire could still be felt. The painful reminders were the charred remains of the barks of palm trees towering above the community. “We are hopeful again because the town has been largely rebuilt with new buildings. We have new buildings and while it was a tragic event, we have been able to rise from it and now look forward. “What happened was tragic. “People lost everything and can now only hold onto memories, but we are grateful for the charity and help that came to our aid when we most needed it. We were devastated at the time, but have found new hope. “We now wait for our residents still housed in the nu-tec temporary structures to move into their homes again after they have been restored,” said Waldeck. The fire had burnt for hours as the community waited for emergency services to arrive from Clanwilliam, about an hour away along a gravel road. It had claimed the life of Jackie Valentyn, 57, who was admitted to Tygerberg Hospital with burn wounds and later succumbed to her injuries. According to Waldeck, the fire had started after a group of men had harvested honey from a tree but did not extinguish the fire which was meant to keep away the bees. The criminal case was not pursued by the Moravian Church. “What still stands out from that fire and described as a miracle, is that while the fire threatened close to the church which was built here in 1834, the church got no damage,” said Waldeck. Resident and administration clerk at the Karl Schiefer hostel, Almerencia Waldeck, said it was humbling to receive assistance from a number of donors as residents tried to recover from the fire. “The town was left without electricity for a while after the fire and it looked like a ghost town at night, with smoke still smouldering. “The town smelt of fire very long after that but once help came to our town, it has been a miracle how people could pick up the pieces again to look toward a future. It was tragic and the effects will still be felt for a long time. “These trees were all charred and black but as Wupperthal has been rebuilt, the new green leaves on those very trees, give us new hope for renewal and restoration,” said Almerencia. Cape Times The Cape Times’ Big Friday Read is a series of feature articles focusing on the forgotten issues that often disappear in the blur of fast news cycles, and where we also feature the everyday heroes who go out of their way to change the lives of others in their communities. ** To nominate a hero or raise a forgotten issue you would like us to feature in our Big Friday Read, email ctnews@inl.co.za