Cape Town - While thriving illegal male initiation schools continued to wreak havoc across the country, inadequate parental care in failing to disclose the underlying chronic diseases of their children was also blamed in some of the 20 deaths of Eastern Cape initiates, and two initiates in the Western Cape. Challenges existed in all provinces during the current summer initiation season, which was expected to come to an end later this month, according to the National House of Traditional and Khoisan Leaders (NHTKL). Deaths and injuries were reported at both legal and illegal schools. While the NHTKL awaited full reports from all provinces, the Eastern Cape so far has the highest number of incidents. In another incident in that province, two initiates, both aged 19, drowned at about 10am on December 14 and their bodies were recovered on December 20 following an intensive search. “The two initiates were reported to have been washed away by the Umzimvubu River during an incident where 35 initiates were taken to the river to bathe. “One is from Mount Frere and one is from Mbizana,” the Alfred Nzo region said. The same province recorded the death of an initiate found hanged from a tree in Mthatha. NHTKL national deputy chairperson, Nkosi Langa Mavuso, said a death was one too many – the practice was not supposed to kill. “We regret the deaths and send heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I can’t understand why parents would take their children to illegal circumcision schools. “Six out of 10 initiates who died due to illegal circumcision (in the Eastern Cape) were under age and taken to schools without following both the provincial and national law on circumcision. The role of parents is central to mitigating the deaths and injuries of our children. “The government and traditional leaders alone cannot succeed in its intervention efforts,” he said. It was also discovered that there were initiates who had underlying chronic diseases, he said. “Parents should ensure chronic diseases are disclosed so that parents can ensure that initiates bring their medications to the school so we don’t have to deal with chronic illnesses which may be fatal. “The national house of traditional and khoisan leaders will double its efforts to mitigate these deaths and engage families to up their sleeves to avoid further deaths through its national initiation oversight committee and our partners,” said Mavuso. He said training of traditional surgeons and awareness were done in partnership with Xhosa radio station UMhlobo Wenene, Right to Care and other NGOs. While the numbers were high, Mavuso said there’s been a change and decline in the deaths and amputations through the interventions. “Our intervention strategy was implemented to the letter, albeit the deaths were unfortunate.” Traditional surgeon and Somagwaza Institute chairperson Sikelela Zokufa said to date the Western Cape had reported the deaths of two initiates from separate Khayelitsha initiation camps. “The summer initiation season in the province is proceeding well. However, sadly, there were two lives lost. “The problem we have noted is the lack of parental care and traditional surgeon care. “We don’t understand how a parent can be informed that a child is sick and the parent insists that he will be fine while people can see the risks that the child might not make it. “This is totally unacceptable and we are saying once a child gets sick they must immediately be given attention. “If the health keeps on deteriorating, rather save the life by sending him to hospital. We are shocked and saddened by this lack of care and ignorance. “We will continue to ensure such accidents don’t happen again,” said Zokufa. He said when the Somagwaza Institute heard about the deaths they went to probe and discovered there were also other children who needed attention and assisted them.” The institution is preparing for a massive ceremony celebration on Saturday where 11 boys will be returning home as men after undergoing the rite of passage into manhood. The Western Cape Department of Cultural Affairs spokesperson, Tania Colyn, said to “respect the tradition and to allow the season to conclude” they will only provide feedback at a later stage after the season ends. It however also urged parents to send their children to registered initiation sites. The Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa) called for the arrests of people involved in illegal schools. President Cyril Ramaphosa said: “A number of young men have lost their lives during the summer initiation season, turning what was meant to be a time of joy and celebration into a time of sorrow. “Our thoughts and prayers are with all the bereaved families. “May the Lord embrace and comfort all families who suffered loss as a result of these tragic events.” Cape Times