Cape Town - The DA has threatened to challenge the appointment of Ombali Phineus Sebola as municipal manager in Knysna, alleging he has a record of mismanagement and undermining due process.  Sebola was appointed during a special council meeting last week. He is expected to take up office on February 1.  Roland Butler previously held the acting municipal manager position and his term came to an end.  The DA however alleges that the council meeting to elect Sebola was irregular and the selection process for the position was riddled with irregularities and legal flaws.  DA constituency head in Knysna Dr Dion George said Sebola who previously served as municipal manager at the Modimolle-Mookgophong municipality in Limpopo was “unqualified” for the position.  He alleged close to R20 million was paid out to beneficiaries without any reference on bank statements as to who the beneficiaries were, under Sebola’s watch at the Modimolle-Mookgophong municipality. “Furthermore, Sebola often missed meetings with the Modimolle-Mookgophong mayor, Marlene van Staden, refusing to supply financial reports and discuss the municipality’s financial situation.  “The DA can also confirm that the auditor-general (AG) lodged a complaint that it was impossible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to compile an audit report of the Modimolle-Mookgophon municipality, which led to the AG’s disclaimed audit opinion.  “How is the appointment of Sebola, with a record like this, going to benefit the people of Knysna? He will bleed the municipality dry, as he had done before,” said George.  Sebola said he would respond to questions when he starts work in February 1.  Plaaslike Besorgde Inwoners (PBI) leader Virgil Gericke said they were satisfied that due process was followed in the appointment.  “An independent consultant has been appointed and a report was submitted to Council. This includes the vetting process in accordance with the requirements of Council. The report submitted to Council does not explicitly express who should or who should not be appointed. Council exercised their right to appoint a candidate of their choice. This decision was taken with due consideration with the vision and mission of the Municipality,  as well as specific goals and targets.  “The DA is furious that their choice of candidate was not appointed. We are a coalition government with our own views and vision for the people of the greater Knysna. We cannot dance according to the tune of the DA and their partner, Knysna Independent Movement (KIM).” The municipality said it would respond to questions in due course.  Cape Times