Cape Town - With the Department of Correctional Services’ (DCS) festive season security operations still under way, the department has issued a stern warning to correctional centres that it would discipline those who possess and smuggle contraband at its facilities. The DCS expressed concern at the proliferation of cellphones and the smuggling of prohibited substances. The department also plans to launch a full-scale investigation after a group of inmates allegedly became unruly and barricaded a sectional gate at the Boksburg Correctional Centre on Monday during a mandatory search operation by the department’s national task team. This was part of its festive season security operation. DCS spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said on Tuesday that calm and order had since been restored. “The DCS shall never hesitate to act with vigour to ensure that there is no dereliction from the core mandate of corrections. “Inmates attempting to undermine the authority of the state know the consequences. DCS will never compromise the safety and security of other inmates, officials, members of the community and service providers.” Nxumalo said some of the images circulating via social media platforms emanated from inmates making a mockery of the correctional system. “This is a clear indication that the few unruly inmates who sought to prevent the searching exercise knew they were hiding contraband in their cells. “Those involved will be identified and corrective measures taken against them. We remain committed to incarcerate inmates in a humane, secure environment. “However, we will never tolerate undermining of the Correctional Services Act by unruly inmates hell-bent  on unleashing terror on communities and officials through acts of crime while under lawful custody.” The DCS hailed the way in which their officials dealt with the issue. In the Western Cape, an unannounced raid led by national Correctional Services Commissioner Makgothi Thobakgale at the Drakenstein maximum security prison, near Paarl, also led to the discovery of electrical wires, cellphones, money and chargers last month. Thobakgale said that, weekly, officials involved in illegal activities were apprehended, which led to disciplinary action. Cape Times