Cape Town - The School governing body (SGB) of Plettenberg Bay’s Murray High School has predicted chaos with the return of learners on Wednesday as the school still battles with overcrowding and is yet to receive 17 mobile classrooms, which was apparently promised to the school by the Education Department. At the weekend, the ANC’s Cameron Dugmore visited the school and found that the much-needed mobile classrooms had not been delivered, slamming the provincial education department for its “neglect”. The school has so far received five mobile classrooms and the SGB said this would not nearly tackle the overcrowding and placements at the school. However, the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) said the allegations by the ANC were “simply not true” and that the 17 classrooms referred to was a separate project and is planned for land opposite the high school. SGB chairperson Sandiso Gcabhayi, said the response of the WCED was “an utter shame and being dishonest to the future of a black child”. “We as the governing body wrote emails to all echelons of the department sensitising it about the school being overcrowded by almost 2 000 learners in 2022. “After we were leased land by Bitou Municipality for nine years and 11 months, they promised that they will be giving us 17 mobile classes and 16 teachers to curb overcrowding by dividing the school into GET and FET using the land we have attained for the preparations of the 2023 school year. “We received (disappointing) news at the end of 2022 that they will erect five classrooms on the school grounds and give us only five teachers, yet this is not solving the problem of overcrowding as the parents in a meeting were told learners will attend school in full capacity in 2023. “We have land to put 17 mobile classes with an administration block and we need those 16 teachers to give our children an education,” said Gcabhayi. Dugmore said his visit to the school on Saturday was the “clearest indication of neglect”. “My visit to Murray High School in Plettenberg Bay was the clearest indication of the neglect by the DA provincial government of our schools. “What was very clear is that there has been no adequate response to the overcrowding which has been a reality at the school since more than three years ago. “The department has not kept its promises. I challenge the MEC (for education) to meet the SGB before Wednesday. They will hear first hand when the promises were made by the WCED officials. “It is clear that unless an initiative with clear time frames is developed by Wednesday, we won’t have a good start to the school year. We cannot subject our children to this kind of overcrowding. It’s a neglect of black schools in the Western Cape and is a clear sign of unequal education in the province. This would never have happened if Murray High was a former model C school,” Dugmore said. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond refuted the allegations. “Regarding the allegations that 17 mobiles have not been delivered to Murray HS, (this) is simply not true. The fact is that five additional mobile classrooms were promised and delivered well ahead of schedule before school opening at Murray High School. This is over-and-above the four existing mobile classrooms already installed earlier last year. “The WCED aims to build a new school, opposite Murray High School, as part of the rapid school build programme, as soon as land becomes available to deal with admission pressure in Bitou. “These are separate projects, which is probably what is causing the confusion. Ultimately, we have delivered on our promise to provide five mobiles to Murray HS and are committed to continue with the building of a new school in the area once the land becomes available,” said Hammond. Cape Times