Cape Town - Parents of pupils in Leeu Gamka breathed a sigh of relief after all pupils were successfully placed in accommodation at a hostel in Beaufort West. This comes after parents were panicked with regard to a R300 “compulsory fee” the school governing body had demanded for placement and registration for 16 pupils – a fee the poverty-stricken parents could ill-afford. The Cape Times had earlier this week reported on how – after agreeing to scrap the R300 fee for pupils at no-fee Bastiaanse Secondary School, in Leeu Gamka – the SGB reneged on the decision. Central Karoo community activist Ernest Beyers said after interventions by various roleplayers they were relieved that 16 pupils could start their academic year and the parents were not obliged to pay the fee. “I am glad that our parents from Leeu Gamka could be supported and assisted with registration and placement of all pupils at Bastiaanse Secondary School and the hostel. I also want to thank the circuit manager for all his assistance during the process. “My only hope is that the principal and governing body of Bastiaanse Secondary School will refund the R300 fees which were already paid before the decision was made and following these recent developments,” said Beyers. WCED spokesperson, Bronagh Hammond, said the admission of a learner to a school does not necessarily mean admission to the hostel. “Admission to the hostel is a separate process managed by the SGB. The WCED was made aware by a parent that some learners were not being admitted to the hostel and that a fee of R300 was allegedly being charged. “The WCED intervened, and we have received, in writing, confirmation by the school on January 17 that the claim that learners were denied accommodation at the hostel as a result of payment was untrue. “They confirmed that the learners registered at the residence are still registered,” said Hammond. Should a parent be asked to pay such a registration fee, or be denied access due to this fee, then they must report this to the district office. If any monies have been paid, then it would need to be returned,” said Hammond. ActionSA provincial chairperson Michelle Wasserman, said this was a victory. Cape Times