Cape Town - The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) is set to take part in naval exercise Mosi II with its Russian and Chinese counterparts along the KwaZulu-Natal coast in February. This will be the second time such an exercise is taking place involving the three naval forces. SANDF spokesperson Brigadier General Andries Mokoena Mahapa said the aim of the exercise was to strengthen relations between the three countries. “As a means to strengthen the already flourishing relations between South Africa, Russia and China, a multinational maritime exercise between these three countries termed Exercise Mosi will take place in Durban and Richards Bay areas of KwaZulu-Natal province over 17 to 27 February 2023. This will be the second time such an exercise is taking place involving the three naval forces with the first one held in November 2019 in Cape Town. “Exercise coordinators have concluded all necessary coordination and preparation arrangements for this exercise during virtual planning conferences held in the beginning of December 2022.” This year’s Exercise Mosi will see over 350 SANDF personnel from various Arms of Services and Divisions participating alongside the Russian and Chinese counterparts with an aim of sharing operational skills and knowledge.  “While Exercise Mosi will be conducted in the southern oceans over the said period, it will coincide with the Armed Forces Day celebration that will take place at uMhlathuze Municipality in Richards Bay, east of KwaZulu-Natal province,” Mahapa said. DA Shadow Minister of Defence and Military Affairs Kobus Marais said they would oppose the exercise. “Currently most if not all of the South African Navy vessels are not serviceable and our maritime patrols and reconnaissance obligations are not fulfilled as required by our Constitution. We hardly have enough resources to comply with the basic SA naval requirements and obligations to protect the nation’s integrity and secure the safety of our people. “To waste money (on) this fruitless exercise is irrational, irresponsible and unacceptable. There can be little if any real benefit for the SANDF given the enormous resource constraints it has to deal with on a daily basis. “Our first priorities must be to do the essential maintenance and upgrades to our naval vessels and once we can afford and benefit significantly from an international exercise, it must then be considered.” Marais said the ANC-government cannot “hide behind” BRICS membership to endorse the exercise as Brazil is not taking part. “It is an awkward time in global geopolitical history due to the Russian war in Ukraine and the devastation of civilian targets in Ukraine. “While our government has claimed to be neutral, this is just another of many incidents where the ANC has clearly exposed their favouritism towards Russia,” he said. Cape Times