Cape Town - A businessman who donated R139 000 towards school fees for learners at Lamberts Bay High School has been lauded for giving back to the community which helped shape him.  Joseph Sobekwa, 40, who is the founder of transport company Sobekwa Transport, said he was happy the donation would assist more than 200 learners at the school.  Sobekwa said he made the donation together with his family to give back and assist rural farm households who could not afford to pay school fees. “I also come from a poor family. I struggled a lot growing up after my mother passed away. I was very poor and had no money. I started this transport business in 2005 to get out of that situation, it is a family business.  “I also made the donation for the children from Graafwater and Elands Bay where I grew up because the parents are only working on the farms and do not earn much, now some of the children cannot go to school because they do not have school fees. I made the donation because I was also once in their shoes and know what the effects of not being able to go to school because there is no money at home, can do to a young person,” he said. Lamberts Bay High School serves low income communities in the town and this is the first year that the school has charged school fees. Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the donation would contribute R500 towards the learners’ annual school fees and the remaining balance of R100 for parents. “The donor has indicated that he will contribute R139 000 towards the school. Half of this has been paid over to the school with the remaining balance expected in February.  “It is wonderful to see people giving back generously towards their communities, and particularly towards education. These learners are the future leaders of the Lamberts Bay community and the funds will contribute significantly towards improving the quality of education at the school.”  She added that while not all people had the means to contribute towards education financially, everyone could do something for their local schools and communities by giving up time to assist in school activities, providing valuable skills that can be used in benefit for the school such as painting, repair work and maintenance, or even being the ears and eyes of schools by reporting suspicious behaviour on school premises. Rural and Farmworkers Development Organisation executive director Billy Claasen hailed Sobekwa for his contribution to the community. “This is indeed a very noble deed by a son of the area that also started from scratch. This is someone who changed his own circumstances by working hard. “We need each other and we need to join hands to transform our communities. This deed ensures that children can go to school without any worries of school fees and they can focus on their studies,” said Claasen.