Cape Town - What started as a positive day for Dr Genine Josias, who joined the “Remember Me” campaign in honour of murder victims, turned into a nightmare after she was allegedly assaulted during a row over private property, for standing in the shade next to the Groote Kerk in Adderley Street. Police confirmed they were investigating the incident which occurred around 4.30pm on January 2. “According to the report the victim alleged that she was pushed by an unknown male whilst at the premises after she was told to move away as it is private property. "Pinelands SAPS refers and it will be transferred to Cape Town SAPS for investigation,” police spokesperson Frederick van Wyk said. Josias said after she participated in the campaign event, the CBD was packed because of the minstrels carnival and the sidewalk was packed, so she went into a gate next to the church to stand in the shade with a friend. “We were standing there for about 10 minutes when this gentleman came and said ‘you cannot stand here, this is private property’ and he is a security. So I said if you can please show me where it says this is private property because there are no signs, the gate is unlocked and people are walking in and out the gate. “I also asked if he could show me his identification and he said he did not have to show me anything and that I thought I was clever. The man never gave me a chance to talk.” Josias said the man then left and came back and shouted at them. “He was standing on my left. He put his right arm around my waist at the back then he pushed me and I almost fell. I didn’t expect him to do that. I told him ‘you have no right’.” Shortly after that, another man appeared, hurling abuse at Josias and others, which scared Josias, she said, and reminded her of the many victims she dealt with daily as a medical coordinator at the Thuthuzela Clinical Forensic Centre at Karl Bremer Hospital. “So many of my victims ended up being severely assaulted, some ended up being raped. The most painful part was when they say ‘but I called out, I shouted but nobody heard me’. What if I was there at a time when no one else was there, what if there were no bystanders who supported me?” she asked. Law enforcement eventually diffused the situation and advised Josias to lodge a complaint with the police. The chairperson for The Piazza on Church Square, Steve Broekmann, said the incident was a regrettable and avoidable situation. “The person shouting at the gate is not a trustee of the body corporate and does not represent The Piazza on Church Square in any way. “Although he is one of the many owners he holds a right to only about 0.05% of the common property. Ironically, although he is correct that Dr Josias was on private property, in the video she is not seen on common property belonging to The Piazza. She was actually on property belonging to the church next door,” Broekmann said. “As she was there with someone from the church, in my view she was entitled to be there, but the unpleasantness could have been avoided if the church had just let our manager know in advance. “The concierge is simply giving effect to the instructions of the trustees to ensure that access to the area is for bona fide reasons. We have had problems with people abusing the area in the past,” said Broekmann. He said the trustees would have a meeting to discuss the official response of the body corporate and do whatever was possible to prevent a recurrence. Cape Times