Cape Town - An investment into alternative energy sources in the country continued to grow, TotalEnergies EP South Africa (TEEPSA) announced it was closer to supplying gas from the Southern coast to the domestic market. The announcement has made conservation groups wary, as they raised concern over the impact on the environment. TotalEnergies said together with its partners, they applied for a production licence in September last year. “If the production right is granted and commercial agreements for the sale of the gas onto the domestic market can be achieved. TEEPSA and its partners applied for a production licence in September 2022, following which an environmental and societal impact assessment (ESIA) was initiated, in accordance with the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002. “The future production facilities would be connected to an existing platform and pipelines roughly 75 km offshore. “This project is expected to supply gas to the South African domestic market. South Africa’s economy is still predominantly based on coal, which accounts for 80% of its current electricity generation. “In South Africa, TotalEnergies is positioning itself in accordance with public policy to contribute to the evolution of the country’s energy mix as part of a just transition that will require a move away from coal, a sharp increase in renewable energies, and the use of gas as a transition fuel.” Small-scale fishing interest group, Masifundise’s project officer, Maia Nangle said: “There are currently a slew of oil and gas prospecting and production applications under way in South Africa. “(These) may impact on the ability of fishing communities to engage meaningfully in the public participation process. “It is also concerning that the South African government, especially the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy, are placing so much focus on the advancement of oil and gas extraction, at the expense of livelihoods and small-scale fishing communities, coastal communities, and tourist towns on the coastlines. “There is a risk of an oil spill in all oil and gas exploration activities, and small scale fishers and their communities are especially vulnerable to the impacts of such a spill. This is due to the inevitable depletion of fish stocks and the resulting loss of livelihood and food security.” Environmental activists, the Green Connection, said the roll-out of renewables was needed. The organisation’s community outreach co-ordinator, Neville van Rooy, said: “Total’s business model, in the face of climate change, is totally unacceptable. This is a company in denial about climate change.” Public participation concerning the exploration is planned around the Southern Cape from January 16 to 26. More information can be found at www.wsp.com/en-za/services/ public-documents or the public participation office can be contacted on teepsaEIA@WSP.com Cape Times