Cape Town - The Supreme Court of Appeal has ruled against the damages claim of a former councillor candidate who argued that her human dignity was violated when she was interviewed in what was described as an “ablution block”. The SCA has overruled the case of a lower court which granted the former potential councillor, Ntombenhle Rulumeni, her damages claim against the DA for R10 million. Acting Judge of Appeal, Glenn Goosen, upheld the DA’s appeal. Rulumeni alleged that the DA had wrongfully and intentionally “injured her dignity” on February 6, 2016, when its officials interviewed her in a “female ablution block”. She sought damages in the amount of R10 million. The second claim, arising from the same events, was one for economic loss. On October 15, 2019, the high court found the DA liable to Rulumeni in respect of her first claim based on the actio iniuriarum. It dismissed the claim for pure economic loss. Rulumeni was a member of the DA and had served as its representative in the Buffalo City Municipal Council. In 2015 she applied to be a councillor and to be placed on the DA’s party list for the local government elections in 2016. Rulumeni argued that during the interviewing process, the DA’s agents intentionally infringed on her right to dignity and harmed her feelings, when “at Bunker’s Hill, (she) was ushered by the Defendant’s agents through a hall full of candidates, and led through a door leading into the female ablution block. That is when she was told, in a changing room adjoining female toilets and bathrooms, that that this was where the interview would proceed.  Rulumeni was shocked, humiliated, and extremely pained by the rapidly unfolding events. She felt her dignity had been lowered, and her sense of identity under assault,” court papers read. According to Rulumeni, her interview with the DA’s Kevin Mileham, chairperson of the selection panel at the time, started just after 8am. Mileham argued that Rulumeni arrived late and that another venue had to be found. “As a result, the hall could not be used for the interview. (Mileham) had looked, without success, for an alternative venue. As they were under pressure to complete the selection process, they decided to use the room leading to the ladies toilets. No other venue was available. “Mileham testified that he asked Rulumeni if she was ‘okay’ with holding the interview there and she did not object. He explained that it was not a toilet. It was a well-appointed cloakroom or changing room – carpeted, furnished and private. It was separated from the hall by a door. The toilets were off the room, through an archway and they all had doors... (Mileham) confirmed that he had, on behalf of the appellant, tendered an apology during a process mediated by the Human Rights Commission. He did so because he never intended to cause any insult and he accepted, with hindsight, that the choice of the venue was not ideal because it had caused offence,” the judgment read. Acting Judge Goosen said: “This labelling of the venue either as ‘a toilet’ or ‘an ablution facility’ is unhelpful. Rather, the focus should have been on the attributes of the room itself, and its layout. The photographs forming part of the record show that it was a large carpeted room containing lockers, a dressing table, wall mounted mirror and a couch. The toilets were housed in separate spaces behind closed doors. As correctly testified by Mr Mileham, the room served as a changing room or cloakroom. In the circumstances, the room cannot be described as ‘a toilet’ or ‘an ablution facility’. It is a room from which those facilities are accessed.” Enquiries to the DA and Rulumeni were not answered by deadline on Sunday. Cape Times