Cape Town - A Plumstead man who allegedly intimidates residents and other dogs with his pit bull has been reported to the Cape of Good Hope SPCA. Plumstead resident Jadene Adams said the man approached her family while they were walking their dog on Sunday. “We stepped back, saying that our puppy has not had all his vaccinations so the dogs should not have contact. He loosened his dog off the leash regardless, saying that he did that on purpose. “We told him to not do that and he continued to egg that dog on as if to provoke the dog to injure us or our puppy. The man’s dog was not aggressive at all, it was only the owner being aggressive. He was beating his dog as if it was doing something wrong. “Once we all stood in front of our dog to protect it and told him to leave, he fastened the dogs leash and walked on, but then continued saying very provoking things and swearing at us. “When his comments became more and more insulting and he continued to beat his dog, we approached him to seize the dog, but he fled with the dog,” she said. Adams said they then reported the matter to the SPCA. “I also posted this on our community group and multiple people have since reported that the same incident has happened to them. I went to the school opposite the field to see the security guard and he says this man has been a major problem in the area. I would like to get that dog taken away from him and would personally adopt him if need be,” she said. SPCA spokesperson Marisol Gutierrez said their inspectorate visited the area on Tuesday but the man with the dog was not there. “We urge members of the public to contact Law Enforcement and the SPCA if this individual is seen provoking or inciting his dog to attack. It will also be helpful for us to see video footage, if anyone is able to share this with us,” Gutierrez said. “It should be noted that the Cape of Good Hope SPCA definitely does not condone this dog owner’s actions – and if he was trying to get his dog to frighten onlookers and their pets, he may well be acting illegally, since the Animals Protection Act states that it is an offence to incite or provoke any animal to attack another animal. Having not witnessed the incident first-hand, it is near impossible to provide comprehensive feedback,” she added. Contact the SPCA on 021 7004140 or for after hours emergencies on 083 326 1604. Email: info@capespca.co.za Cape Times