Cape Town - Three ousted Swellendam municipal officials are the latest DA former members who will take the party to court to fight for the reinstatement of their memberships. The memberships of Speaker Bongani Sonqwenqwe, deputy mayor Gcobisa Mangcu-Qotyiwe and councillor Abraham Pokwas were ceased in December after they voted against a caucus decision. DA Federal Council chairperson Helen Zille has remained adamant that no one’s membership was terminated, but the three officials ceased it. Swellendam Municipal spokesperson, Bianca McKechnie, said that the DA informed the municipality that the councillors’ memberships to the party “had been terminated” and that they therefore no longer hold office at Swellendam Municipality. Pokwas and Mangcu-Qotyiwe’s positions were declared by the municipal manager as vacancies to the IEC, and in the case of Pokwas, additionally, to Local Government MEC Anton Bredell. “The municipality would like to confirm that these vacancies have no effect on the normal functioning of Swellendam Municipality and all operations will continue as before,” said McKechnie. Swellendam mayor Francois du Rand did not respond to questions about plans or time frames over when the three positions might be filled. Sonqwenqwe said he did not want the matter to end up in court, but there seemed to be no other option. “I do, however, believe that the courts are fair and will see to it that this whole debacle is dealt with fairly and that my membership will be reinstated soon. “Our insistence to advertise the post for corporate services director, which presents an opportunity to address serious shortcomings in the Employment Equity of the management structure in Swellendam Municipality, is the reason for our expulsion, among others. “We have a responsibility to address the imbalances of the past and redress as articulated by the DA Values Charter with emphasis on Opportunities for All and embracing our diversity where we are in government,” he said. Optimistic, Mangcu-Qotyiwe said when she heads to court, it would not be to embarrass the DA, but to save and guide the party. “To help it grow from strength to strength. Actions like these damage the brand of the party and could reflect in the election results if not handled correctly. “I will do anything and everything to protect my dignity, which is a right that is guaranteed by our South African Constitution. This is not the apartheid era.” Pokwas said:“I believe in the process of natural justice and that everyone should be treated fairly. We had a problem with the mayor here and approached the party on the motion of no confidence to remove Franscois Du Rand as mayor, Helen Zille sent me an email instructing us to. “Where is peace now? Instead we have been expelled, where is equality?  We are treated worse than animals.” This comes as former DA member and Western Cape Legislature speaker Masizole Mnqasela is also fighting to regain his membership and have the letter of cessation of membership be declared null-and-void and unconstitutional. Mnqasela blamed Zille, stating: “Zille strikes again, this time in Swellendam.” He also expressed gratitude to those whom he believed were “protecting our party.” DA Western Cape provincial chairperson, Jaco Londt, referred all questions to Zille. “Helen’s office initiated this, best that she answers,” he said. Zillle said the remarks from Mnqasela and the three officials had material errors. “They cessated their membership by violating key clauses in the DA’s constitution, which mean immediate cessation. Their membership was not terminated and the notification was from the Federal Legal Commission (FLC) confirming their act of cessation. The caucus decision they did not abide with involved their vote in the council that went against the caucus decision. That is an act of cessation according to the DA’s constitution,” said Zille. According to Zille she took none of the decisions. “The statement is biased to place their conduct in a favourable light without giving the other side of the story. Cessations are confirmed by the FLC and I follow their advice to the letter. “My only role is to follow the DA’s constitution meticulously and ensure it is applied without fear or favour to every member. I have never acted without submitting the issue to the FLC and its lawyers, and strictly adhered to this advice. There is no merit in the allegations made,” said Zille. Cape Times