Cape Town - The bodies of two suspected Transnet fuel thieves have been discovered –one in a pipeline and another in the tunnel leading to the petroleum pipeline near Kibler Park in Johannesburg, at the weekend. It is suspected that they were overcome by fumes while trying to syphon petrol from the pipeline on Saturday night. The structure and tunnel were demolished on Sunday. Transnet has described the incident as a “harsh reminder” to fuel thieves that tampering with the petroleum pipelines and associated infrastructure can lead to disastrous consequences, including personal injuries and fatalities, extensive environmental damage and fire. In November, five armed suspects’ efforts were thwarted after residents tipped off police of the theft of diesel at a Transnet Freight Rail (TFR) depot in Watervalboven (Emgwenya), Emakhazeni, Mpumalanga . They managed to gain access to the TFR site using two vehicles, including a fuel tanker, with the intention to steal diesel at 2.05am. They had apparently transferred about 18 000 litres of diesel to their fuel tanker before fleeing after police responded to the tip-off by members of the community following suspicious activity at the depot. As police arrived, the suspects fled on foot, leaving behind their vehicle as well as the fuel tanker. A case of armed robbery and attempted theft was registered with the SAPS. The Asset Forfeiture Unit was also activated to ensure the vehicles used in the commissioning of a crime were forfeited to the State. Last year Jumbo Silombo, 35, was convicted and sentenced for stealing fuel at Mimosadale area near Estcourt in November 2020. He was to pay a fine of R100 000 or face four years’ imprisonment. Silombo and his accomplices were caught by a private security company tampering with the Transnet pipeline. His accomplices fled and Silombo disconnected the pipe before he drove off with a tanker truck. During the current financial year the state-owned entity has had 90 fuel theft incidents and together with its specialised tactical teams, including aerial and ground support, have made 68 arrests including two kingpins, said Transnet in a statement. “(This) demonstrates the commitment to halt the onslaught of criminal activities and keep our pipelines and communities safe.  The perpetrators will face the full might of the law as tampering with the pipeline, or colluding to tamper, is a Schedule 5 offence in terms of the Criminal Matters Amendment Act, Act 18 of 2015, and all perpetrators are charged accordingly. “Transnet continues to urge all petroleum retailers and members of the public to refrain from buying fuel from unregistered traders, to curb the demand for illegal petroleum products and to join in the fight against petroleum theft. “Transnet will act with the full might of the law.” Cape Times