Cape Town - Build One South Africa (Bosa) has become the latest to join court action against Eskom and Minister of Public Enterprises Pravin Gordhan. The independent political party led by Mmusi Maimane, Bosa, said it seeks to legally put a stop to the 18.65% tariff increase by Nersa; put an end to load shedding, and hold the government accountable for its failure to provide electricity to the nation. "We are of the view that both Eskom and the Minister of Public Enterprises are in breach of their obligation to provide electricity. In particular, this infringes upon at least four constitutional enshrined human rights, namely: Section 22 – the right to choose and practice a trade, occupation or profession freely; Section 24 – the right to an environment that is not harmful to their health or well-being; Section 27 – the right to health care, food, water and social security; Section 29 – the right to education. "Our legal team has issued a letter of demand that, if not responded to by 20 January, will result in court action." Bosa said it demanded there will be no load shedding without procedural fairness and a fair opportunity to make alternative arrangements to affected persons and businesses; that load shedding will stop with immediate effect, and if not, a full explanation about why the government is unable to stop load shedding with immediate effect; and in the alternative, they demand a specific timetable the as to when load shedding will end, and the reasons for the said time table. "The persistent rolling blackouts that have plagued the nation's electricity supply since the second half of 2007 have impacted all South Africans, particularly small businesses, healthcare facilities and educational institutions. The energy crisis has affected South Africa's economic growth and has resulted in job losses, business closures, and increasing inflation. "As the energy crisis continues to affect our citizens without any sign or plan from the government to come up with solutions to resolve this matter, South Africans rightfully remain angry and feel prejudiced whilst the cost of living continues to grow. "Bosa encourages all South Africans to join us in this fight for justice and accountability. Together, we can bring change."  Cape Times