Cape Town - Police operations in the Mfuleni precinct led to 65 arrests at the weekend. The suspects were arrested on charges related to firearms, drugs, stolen property, undocumented persons, and dealing in liquor without a license, said police spokesperson FC van Wyk. The suspects were expected to make their court appearances in the Blue Down’s Magistrates Court on Monday. “On Friday, 13 January 2023, several SAPS members including, Home Affairs and the City of Cape Town Law Enforcement agencies conducted an integrated operation under Operation Restore in the Mfuleni policing precinct. They were deployed, focusing on liquor operations, drugs, searching of vehicles and individuals at vehicle control points, illegal firearms, undocumented persons and visibility in the area. “Several search warrants, roadblocks and foot patrols were executed and during the operation a total of 65 suspects were arrested on charges related to firearms, drugs, stolen property, undocumented persons and dealing in liquor without a license. 468 Traffic fines to the value of R299 000 were issued to unlicensed drivers and vehicles that are not roadworthy,” said Van Wyk. Meanwhile, in two unrelated incidents, two suspects were each arrested on fraud charges in Kuilsriver and Hawston, said Van Wyk. “Members attached to the Western Cape Commercial Crime Investigations Unit conducted tracing operations to arrest suspects in fraud cases under investigation. On January 13, members of Commercial Crime Investigations did a tracing operation and arrested a 43-year-old female residing in Kuilsrivier for a Wellington fraud case. “According to records she was employed by a grape farm. During November 2021 the farm manager informed the director of the farm of suspected transactions that was made by the suspect. After further investigation by the farm, they employed an auditing company to do an audit from 2019 to 2021 and it was discovered that the suspect made over 400 transactions from the business accounts to her personal account that amounts to R11 210 781. The suspect was arrested and will appear in Wellington Magistrate court on Monday on the said charges,” said Van Wyk. Members of the same unit conducted further tracing operations on Friday and arrested a 37-year-old man from Hawston on a charge of fraud. “The suspect was a manager at a retail clothing store, and while employed did fictitious refunds and pocketed the cash. A total of R201 210 was stolen from the company due to fraudulent transactions. The suspect was arrested and detained at Mitchells Plain SAPS,” said Van Wyk. The suspect is expected to appear in the Mitchell’s Plain Magistrates court on Monday. Cape Times