Cape Town - The lawyer representing a man accused of assaulting an EFF member during a violent protest in front of Brackenfell High School in 2021 says his client has been cleared of all charges. Dante van Wyk, who recently appeared in the Kuils River Magistrate’s Court, was acquitted, according to his lawyer. Van Wyk was among those captured on video participating in clashes with the EFF outside the school over allegations of racism. The protest was triggered by reports of a matric dance that was only attended by white pupils. Van Wyk’s lawyer, Millie Westley, said he was acquitted of all charges against him. “The State failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that it was indeed Mr Van Wyk who assaulted the complainant,” she said. Westley added that Van Wyk has received numerous death threats, saying these were from EFF members. “He received over 4 000 death threats on social media. The threats were from EFF members. “The threats were aimed at him, his life partner and even his unborn child. The tone of a great number of these threats were that these EFF members were just waiting for their commander in chief to give them an instruction to go and kill him,” she said. Westley said that video footage of the protest was not allowed as evidence in the matter. “Videos can be edited and the court was not in a position to establish the authenticity of the video material,” she said.  Van Wyk declined to comment. EFF spokesperson Wandile Kasibe said they maintained their member was assaulted by Van Wyk. “The EFF Western Cape vehemently rejects the unfounded allegations perpetuated by Dante’s lawyer, implicating EFF members in the number of death threats that she purports were generated by our members. “As a party we respect the court and its processes, but equally note with grave concern media reports that Dante has not been found guilty after having been captured on camera assaulting one of our members in Brackenfell,” Kasibe said. “We are of the view that the evidence is there in the open for everyone to see, thus in the court of public opinion, Dante and his racist, obnoxious lot did assault our members, and we believe that one day true justice will be served,” he said. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) did not respond to questions on the case on Tuesday. Former Brackenfell councillor and community activist Rhynhardt Bresler said the community was still reeling from the protest. “It was a bad day in the history of the school, and in the history of Brackenfell. We also have to take into consideration that there were pupils writing exams at the time,” he said. “It was a very sad day for the school and the whole community. It will take some time for the community to heal, but I think and believe that we have come a long way from where we were on that day. Many of the issues that the pupils had have been addressed,” Bresler said. Cape Times