Cape Town - Juan van Schalkwyk of the Freedom Front Plus (FF+) was sworn in as the new speaker of the DA-run Swellendam Municipality on Tuesday along with DA councillors Agnes Bokwana and David Julius. The officials were appointed, replacing ousted speaker Bongani Sonqwenqwe, deputy mayor Gcobisa Mangcu-Qotyiwe and councillor Abraham Pokwas whose DA memberships were terminated last month after they voted against a caucus decision. The municipality said the party informed it that the councillors’ memberships “had been terminated”; they therefore no longer hold office at municipality on behalf of the DA. The three positions were declared by the municipal manager as vacancies to the IEC, and in the case of Pokwas, additionally, to Local Government MEC Anton Bredell, municipal spokesperson, Bianca McKechnie had said. Meanwhile Sonqwenqwe, MangcuQotyiwe and Pokwas were at the Western Cape High court on Tuesday afternoon where they were joined by former DA member Masizole Mnqasela. They were expected to file court papers in efforts to challenge DA Federal Council chairperson Helen Zille who they accused of “unlawful expulsion”. The trio hope to have their memberships reinstated. Sonqwenqwe explained that due to factors, including restructuring of an affidavit, they are expected to file the urgent application on Tuesday. He said they had not wanted the matter to end up in court, but there was no other option for them. “The courts are fair and will see to it that this whole debacle is dealt with fairly and that my membership will be reinstated soon. “Our insistence that the post for corporate services director – which presents an opportunity to address serious shortcomings in the Employment Equity of the management structure in Swellendam Municipality – be advertised is the reason for our expulsion, among others. “We have a responsibility to address the imbalances of the past and redress as articulated by the DA Values Charter with its emphasis on Opportunities for All and embracing our diversity where we are in government,” he said. DA spokesperson Richard Newton would only say, “The DA leadership is aware of the (intention) to file papers.” Zille had defended herself claiming she had made none of the decisions. “Cessations are confirmed by the FLC and I follow their advice to the letter. My only role is to follow the DA’s constitution meticulously and ensure it is applied without fear or favour to every member. “I have never acted without submitting the issue to the FLC and its lawyers, and strictly adhered to this advice. There is no merit in the allegations made,” said Zille. Cape Times