Cape Town - The discovery of a decomposed body in Mandalay, suspected to be that of 25-year-old Cleo Khanya Diko, who went missing in October, has shocked the community. A 38-year-old suspect has since been arrested for murder after the body was discovered buried in a shallow grave at the weekend. He is due to appear in the Mitchells Plain Court on Monday. While it has not been confirmed that the body is indeed that of Diko, it is alleged that she was last seen with the suspect at a pub in Mandalay on the day she went missing. Mandalay ward councillor, Avron Plaatjies, said residents were reeling in shock. “We are deeply saddened by the devastating news. We welcome the arrest and hope the SAPS will speedily conclude this investigation and that justice will be served. My condolences to the bereaved family and friends.” Diko was reported missing at the Lentegeur police station this month, after she failed to return home in October. Lentegeur SAPS spokesperson, Felicia Adams, said the body was discovered after a lead was followed up at the suspect’s residence on Friday. Adams said upon arrival, detectives found the decomposed body buried in a shallow grave at the residence. “Detectives went to the premises and spoke to the owner, who granted the officers permission to enter and search the premises. “While searching they discovered bedding that contained blood stains. “The members then noticed a carpet that had been cut. Upon lifting the carpet they noticed that the flooring was tampered with and asked the owner if that is how the tiles were. “The members then stopped and called the dog unit to assist with the search. While searching, the dog indicated that something might be buried there. A shallow grave was then discovered in the room,” Adams said. “At this stage of the investigation, we cannot confirm nor deny that the body discovered, is indeed that of missing Cleo Khanya Diko. “A post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death and DNA testing will be done to determine the identity of the deceased. “A murder case is currently under investigation at Lentegeur SAPS, and once charged, the 38-year-old suspect will appear on a charge of murder at Mitchells Plain Magistrate’s Court on Monday (today),” said Adams. Diko’s mother, Linda Diko, told the media she was waiting to hear from the police about the next steps in the investigation, and about whether the body discovered was that of her daughter. Founder of Faith and Hope Missing Persons, Veranique Williams, said there have been numerous cases involving young women as victims of gender-based crimes. “We urge young women to be cautious and to stop going with unknown men to clubs and be alert of their surroundings. “To parents or family members, if your children do not come home on weekends or any night, check on them. Try to know your children’s friends and in which areas they stay. Even if they run away from home, it is still a missing person’s case.” Anyone with information is requested to call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Cape Times