Cape Town – The LGBTQI+ community is seeking justice after a transgender woman was assaulted and stripped naked by three women in Khayelitsha last week. A video of the incident has been shared widely on social media. In the video footage, the three women can be seen stripping Thabiso “Sis Tee” Motaung naked and beating her in full view of spectators. In another video, the 19-year-old is seen sleeping while one of the women is playing with her genitals. The matter was reported to the police and the perpetrators were arrested after the incident. They appeared in the Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court on Friday, where two of the women were released on R1 500 bail while another suspect, who is a minor, was released into the care of her guardian. Police spokesperson Malcolm Pojie said: “We can confirm that three women aged 17, 22 and 23 appeared in the Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court on Friday,  January 13, in connection with the sexual assault on a 19-year-old complainant.  “The trio were arrested on January 11. We are unable to provide further details as we await the return of the docket from court.” An emotional Motaung told the Cape Times that she was still traumatised by the incident. “I feel so disappointed and sad at the same time. I just want justice to be served. The girls live three streets away from where I live, and I don’t feel safe.  “I can’t wait for the moment they are in jail for what they did and the way they have humiliated me. I don’t want what they did to me to be done to someone else. These girls are the very same people I called my friends,” she said. LGBTQI+ activist, Nokuthula Mjwara, said they were still shocked and disappointed by what happened. “In a country where gender-based violence is at an alarming rate, it is disappointing when those close to us, who we view as friends, become the very perpetrators of violence that we fear from strangers.  “LGBTQI+ civil society organisations will continue to support Sis Tee, who is faced with trauma from the experience while still needing to focus on her studies as a matric student,” Mjwara said. Reverend Sharon Cox of the Triangle Project said they strongly condemned violence perpetrated against LGBTQI+ people. “Thinking that you can behave this way, assault, demean and attempt to dehumanise a person, is sadly a reality that persists.  “It is evident in every case, such as this one, that a person is seen as less than human because of their sexual orientation, gender identity or expression." Cape Times