Cape Town - The Eastern Cape Department of Health said it remained vigilant following the detection of four confirmed Covid-19 cases at Motherwell NU2 Clinic this month, amid the first case of the new “Kraken” variant’s detection in the country recently. The variant, which was first discovered in gene sequencing carried out by researchers at Stellenbosch University, is said to be from the Omicron lineage. The Eastern Cape Health Department said the confirmed four cases of Covid-19, which involved three members of staff and a patient, were not linked to the new variant. “There have been four confirmed Covid-19 cases at Motherwell NU2 Clinic during January 2023. “This number consists of three staff members and one patient. “None of them are showing any life-threatening symptoms, with some not experiencing any symptoms at all (asymptomatic). “Those cases are nowhere linked to the newly discovered XBB 1.5 variant,” EC Health Department spokesperson Yonela Dekeda said. “Decontamination and debriefing of the staff was conducted on Friday, January 6, for an hour, after which operations resumed immediately. All the new cases were referred to the outreach teams for contact tracing and testing. The newly  discovered XBB 1.5 variant is still an issue under research, any update in this space will be led by the scientific outcomes of the research process and formal communication from the National Department of Health.” According to head of genomics sequencing at Stellenbosch University, Professor Tulio de Oliveira, a big wave of infections with hospitalisation was not expected in South Africa, “due to high population immunity and previous waves of Omicron lineages. XBB.1.5 is still Omicron and anyone worried should get a booster.” The Western Cape Department of Health said it has ongoing surveillance and monitoring of Covid-19 cases, hospitalisations and deaths from a number of Covid-19 variants and urged the public to get vaccinated. The National Department of Health is said to provide more information on the detection of the XBB.1.5 variant in due course. Cape Times