Cape Town - After concerns over odour emissions from the Drakenstein Crematorium, the Cape Winelands District Municipality (CWDM) has assured residents that all processes to ensure the safety of air quality has been followed. The Drakenstein Municipality reported the odour emitting from the Dal Josaphat Industrial Area. CDWM said the air quality officer of their Municipal Health Services was alerted to the complaint on January 9. “The situation was immediately investigated by the air quality officer. It was found that there had been an incident on the night of January 7 at around 10pm, where the connection to a probe that ensures the maintenance of optimum temperature was found to be faulty. Due to this faulty connection, the main burner in the primary chamber had switched off, allowing the release of excessive smoke. “The connection and probe have been repaired as required and the problem has been resolved. Services are running as usual at the Drakenstein Crematorium. The crematorium has put measures in place to ensure that connections and switches that require electricity are maintained during Eskom load shedding,” CWDM said in a statement. Drakenstein Municipality said they became aware of a specific odour persisting in and around the Dal Josaphat Industrial Area and after investigating the origin of the odour,  they reported it to CWDM. “The CWDM, under which municipal health services report, is responsible for monitoring the crematorium’s compliance with its air emission licence conditions. Drakenstein Municipality reported the odour and our community’s concerns immediately. The executive mayor of Drakenstein Municipality also took up the matter directly with the executive mayor of the CWDM. “This is because Drakenstein Municipality remains committed to ensuring clean air and a healthy environment for our residents, despite the severe challenges that Eskom’s Stage 6 load shedding increasingly poses to services in our area, such as the crematorium and other services,” Drakenstein Municipality said in a statement. Cape Times