Cape Town – The City of Cape Town has welcomed the arrest of a suspect following the torching of a MyCiTi bus in Imizamo Yethu on Wednesday. The bus was reportedly set alight after the City received a warning of a potential arson attack. The City says it believes that the bus was torched in response to earlier enforcement action against illegal Amaphela taxis operating in the area. “A MyCiTi bus servicing the route between the Adderley Street station in the Cape Town CBD and Hout Bay was stoned when the bus driver stopped in the vicinity of the IY traffic circle to allow approximately 40 passengers to disembark.  “The bus driver was instructed to get out of the bus and it was set alight. Thankfully, no injuries were reported,” mayco member for urban mobility Rob Quintas said. The City opened a case of attempted murder, arson and malicious damage to property and said the replacement cost of the 9m-long bus would amount to approximately R1.3 million. Quintas said the City deployed a number of officers from the Metro Police Service, Traffic Services and Transport Enforcement Unit to patrol the Hout Bay and Imizamo Yethu areas since the attack. “The City will keep on monitoring the situation to ensure the safety and well-being of our commuters and MyCiTi personnel. Deviations will be enforced as and when needed.” Police spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk said one person was arrested for failing to comply with a lawful instruction of a law enforcement officer and assault on a law enforcement official. “Hout Bay police opened a public violence case after a bus was set alight (Wednesday) night in Victoria Road, Hout Bay. No one was injured. “According to reports, traffic officials of the City of Cape Town were busy with operations against taxi drivers operating without a route permit in Victoria Road, Hout Bay. Three taxis were impounded. The other drivers then turn(ed) to a MyCity Bus, stoned the vehicle and set it alight,” he said. Anyone with information on the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 0860010111, or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times