Cape Town - The Western Cape Department of Health says it is monitoring Covid-19 cases and variants amid growing concerns over the first reported case of a coronavirus infection caused by the new, highly transmissible XBB.1.5 variant in South Africa. The variant was discovered in gene sequencing carried out by researchers at Stellenbosch University from a December 27 sample. The XBB.1.5 has quickly become the dominant strain in the US, and has been detected in at least 28 other countries, according to the World Health Organization. Department spokesperson Mark van der Heever said: “The National Department of Health has indicated it will provide more information on the detection of the XBB.1.5 variant in due course. “The Western Cape Department of Health has ongoing surveillance and monitoring of Covid cases, hospitalisations, and deaths from a number of Covid-19 variants. “Vaccination remains our best defence against infection, which is why we urge the public to get vaccinated and receive their booster shots.” National Department of Health spokesperson Foster Mohale said the department was still gathering information about the case. “The department has been alerted to the case of a variant of concern called XBB.1.5 and is still gathering information about the case, including the patient’s health condition and travel history, (as well as the) severity and transmissibility of the case. All these will enable the department to make informed public announcement. “The case was not confirmed at a public health laboratory, which makes it difficult for the department to immediately obtain all relevant information,” Mohale said. Dr Jo Barnes, emeritus senior lecturer in the Department of Global Health at Stellenbosch University, said since most people were now not wearing masks or taking other anti-virus protection measures, the variant may spread fast. “The first case of XBB.1.5 (nicknamed ‘Kraken’) has been identified in South Africa. This is still a subvariant of Omicron, but is reported to be much more infectious than preceding ones. This means it may evade the immunity that was built up by past Covid-19 infections and/or by vaccinations,” she said. “It would be in the interests of anybody who qualifies for an update of their vaccination to get a booster shot.” “Since most people are by now not wearing masks or taking other anti-virus protection measures, it may spread fast. It has been reported in at least 26 countries across the world. What we don’t know yet is whether –apart from its highly infectious nature – it actually causes more severe disease. So far it may not, but we will have to wait and see what it does to the South African population.” “Ordinary precautions such as regular hand-washing and wearing a mask will also help to keep the infection at bay for those who are particularly susceptible to severe disease such as the elderly, those with damaged immune systems, and anyone with other chronic disease conditions,” she said. Cape Times