Cape Town - Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR) teams were kept busy over the New Year’s weekend when they attended to 12 rescue incidents in several parts of the province. The WSAR is a network of government agencies and civilian volunteer organisations who partner in search and rescue operations. The teams assisted visiting tourists in multiple operations between December 31 and January 2. WSAR spokesperson, David Nel, said of the twelve incidents, at least nine rescue operations involved tourists.  A total of fourteen people were assisted by WSAR over the New Year’s weekend. "The Western Cape is internationally famous for its outdoor wonders and is loved by both locals and visitors - from the rest of South Africa, Africa and the world. This past weekend has been peak season. We are mindful that many visitors will not know our mountains, gorges and valleys as well as locals. "So it's a great honour for WSAR, all our members and our vital partners, to serve our valued guests, together," Nel said. Among the rescues this weekend, all but three occurred on Table Mountain. In particular, teams were called to Platteklip Gorge on three separate occasions to deal with visitors struggling with the high temperatures. The Western Cape Department of Health EMS / Air Mercy Service (AMS) rescue helicopter provided critical assistance in four of the incidents. “Local tourist establishments, including guest houses and hotels, are essential partners in our safety campaign. We ask that they assist us, by sharing our safety messages and emergency contact information with their guests. “Traditionally we see higher temperatures in January, February and March and we appeal to all wilderness enthusiasts to plan appropriately, avoid hiking in the hottest hours of the day, carry more water than normal and save our emergency contact number 021 937 0300 to their phones. “We’re asking everyone to help us by sharing the emergency contact number - and share our posts on the #IAmWildernessSafe campaign,” Nel said. Cape Times