Cape Town - Eastern Cape police commissioner Nomthetheleli Mene has condemned the killing of eight people and the injuring of three others in KwaZakele in Gqeberha on Sunday evening. Preliminary investigations revealed that between 5.15pm and 5.30pm, the owner of the house was celebrating his birthday when two unknown gunmen entered the yard in Makanda Street, KwaZakele, and started shooting at the guests. Seven people – three woman and four men – were fatally injured while another four people – two women and two men – sustained gunshot wounds and were taken to hospital for treatment. One of the victims succumbed to their injuries in hospital, bringing the total number of dead to eight. The owner of the house was among them. “Police have launched a manhunt for the suspects while an investigation into the circumstances surrounding this attack is under way. No arrests have been made at this stage. The identity of the deceased and injured are still to be established. The Provincial Organised Crime Investigation team are investigating a case of murder (eight counts) and three cases of attempted murder,” police spokesperson Priscilla Naidu said. Mene condemned the killings as “cowardice and a blatant disregard for human life” and has ordered the team of investigators to trace the perpetrators fast. She appealed to the community to come forward with any information and not to harbour the criminals.  “These victims were killed by criminals and we will not rest until we find out what happened and who was responsible for this callous and cold-blooded attack on these unsuspecting victims.” Police Minister Bheki Cele and National Commissioner General Fannie Masemola are also expected to lead a delegation of experts within the organisation to the crime scene of the mass shooting on Monday. Anyone who can assist in identifying the victims or tracing their next of kin, or who has information relating to the suspects, is asked to contact the provincial OCI, D/Capt Sitole on  082 457 2812 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Cape Times