Cape Town - Baboon conservation non-profit organisation, Baboon Matters, has expressed outrage at the death of two baboons that were electrocuted at the weekend, bringing the tally to four baboons electrocuted in only 14 months, they said. This, as the organisation said it had presented the City with a solution to curb similar incidents about a year ago. Baboon Matters said: “Many of you will remember the posts of Rafiki (Blue Tag) the male who dispersed from his natal troop in Tokai and bravely moved around Boyes Drive and made his way to the Da Gama Park, where he joined the troop without too much drama. “Rafiki had become a much loved member of the troop and I so looked forward to Tim Basset’s lovely posts about this lad. Tragically, yesterday Rafiki and a juvenile were electrocuted; the juvenile being killed instantly but Rafiki dying of his injuries. I can’t bear to think of the pain. The two baboons were electrocuted at the exact spot where Buddy and Khangela were also killed.” According to the baboon conservation group, in March 2021, they were approached with an idea to help insulate the transformer boxes (which is where most baboons get electrocuted). “Baboon Matters and Tank Industries had very positive meetings with NCC (who identified the most critical areas), liaised with appropriate CoCT staff and Tank Industries produced molds for the insulators and were prepared to donate the first two insulators to the most critical areas. “We had ideas as to how we could get further insulators on to all other problem transformer boxes and collectively the service provider, the residents and baboon advocates were all excited that we had a solution that would prevent further horrific injuries and deaths. “But the CoCT simply would not move on the idea. The insulator molds are sitting somewhere in a warehouse instead of installed to prevent this tragic loss of life,” the organisation said. They called on the City to get the transformer boxes insulated as “a matter of urgency”. In response to the claims, the City said it was unable to respond in full on Sunday, and would respond in due course.  “However, the urban baboon management efforts are a priority for the City and all stakeholders. “The City's energy team and other line departments are looking into the matter and all feasible solutions,” the City said. Cape Times