Cape Town - Vegetation fires in Ocean View, at the Steenbras Dam, and Kloof Nek Road in Cape Town kept firefighters busy as the New Year was ushered in. The Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment’s Working on Fire (WoF) programme in the province assisted in fighting and suppressing the three fires between Sunday and Tuesday. A further 21 vegetation fires were tended to during December. WoF said ground crews and aerial resources contained the burned vegetation to a total of just over 200 hectares. Aerial resources flew for 88 hours, assisting Table Mountain National Park, Cape Nature, Western Cape Provincial Disaster Management, the Garden Route District Municipality, the Southern Cape FPA, George Municipality, the Overberg District Municipality, and the West Coast District Municipality. The Western Cape has four AT-802 Bombers, which collectively flew for nine hours, making 32 drops of 96 000 litres of water. The Huey chopper flew for more than 35 hours, making 510 water drops, amounting to 51 000 of water. WoF said that for one of the fires that burned in Ganzekraal along the West Coast, it dispatched all aerial resources stationed at Porterville Fire Base – two spotter planes, two AT-802 Bombers, two Huey choppers, and an aviation support vehicle to assist Cape Nature. “The fire was contained after four hours.  “The Mamre team conducted a mop-up operation to ensure there were no possibilities of flare-ups. “The busiest teams during December were Kluitjieskraal Forestry Support, Bredasdorp, and Uniondale. “Three of the four fires in the new year were in Cape Town. In Ocean View on January 3, WoF dispatched two Huey choppers, a spotter plane, and an aviation support vehicle. “The Newlands team assisted Table Mountain National Park to extinguish the fire. “On the same day, resources were requested to assist the City of Cape Town with the Steenbras Dam fire. “On New Year’s day, a fire broke out at Kloof Nek Road in Cape Town, and a spotter plane and a Huey Chopper were dispatched to help Table Mountain National Park contain the flames.” Meanwhile, the City of Cape Town advised of annual ecological burns that would take place at various nature reserves in February, March and April 2023. The scheduled dates were dependent on weather conditions. “Carefully managed burns are necessary to obtain maximum species diversity. There are numerous benefits to burns. For example, by removing the canopy created by the mature vegetation, sunlight is allowed to reach the ground, which helps with seed germination,” the City said. Cape Times