Cape Town - The Beaufort West community is still reeling in shock following the brutal killing of ANC MP Edward Njadu’s wife, Lydia, on Sunday. It is alleged at least three armed men arrived at her residence and shot at the 55-year-old after a brief discussion. She sustained several gunshot wounds and was later declared dead by medical personnel on the scene. Police spokesperson, Christopher Spies, said the investigation into the matter was still at an early stage. “Beaufort West police opened a murder docket following the death of a 55-year-old woman who was fatally wounded at Xaba Street, Kwa Mandlenkosi in Beaufort West on Sunday, January 22 at about 10pm. “Crime scene experts are combing the scene for clues. The suspects are still at large. “Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation. “Detectives attached to the Western Cape Provincial Detectives serious crimes unit have been assigned to conduct the investigation,”  he said. Njadu family spokesperson, Mlamli Gqagqa, said the family was still deeply shocked by the incident. “We are very much concerned about the children who witnessed this horrible killing of their mother. The family is still trying to cope.” ANC regional secretary, Collin Meyer, called for the police to leave no stone unturned in apprehending the perpetrators. “The ANC in the region is shocked by the attack on the Njadu family. We want to convey our sincere condolences to the Njadu family as a whole. We would urge the community with any information to assist in the arrest of the shooters to contact the Beaufort West police as soon as they can. We will not tolerate the killing of our members and families by thugs in this brutal fashion,” he said. The Beaufort West Municipality said the incident had shocked and saddened the town. “We send our condolences to MP Njadu, his children and the broader family. We pray that God protects them and bring peace in their hearts.” Anyone with information can contact Crime Stop at 08600 1011. Information can be shared anonymously.  Cape Times