Cape Town - Having dedicated his life to the klopse, 71-year-old Suluiman Poromano never anticipated the huge impact of establishing the Cape Town Hawkers troupe on the lives of ordinary street hawkers in the city. It was 34 years ago when he was the brains behind the group that has since grown to have a troupe of about 700 strong members. As communities across Cape Town are revelling in the return of sequinned gears, the trilling of tambourines, reverberation of the trombone and the beating of ghoema drums, the Cape Times spoke with the Bonteheuwel resident who expressed his excitement about about the return of the klopse after being put on hold for two years due to Covid-19 restrictions. Troupes are now gearing up - after months of rehearsals and perfecting their entertainment pieces - for five weeks of competitions where the best of the best will be crowned in the traditionally rich and culturally appreciated sport. The first round of competitions will get underway at the Athlone Stadium on Saturday. However, not all troupes were as fortunate as others, as the pandemic led to them not being able to revive and participate in the annual sport. Poromano said: “I have been involved in the klopse from a very young age. It was something that intrigued me from a young age and while my family wasn’t that involved when my interest piqued, they are now involved in their own ways in whichever ways they can. “I started my group in 1988 and it was started with the focus of a troupe for the hawkers of Cape Town. We are now a troupe of about 700 strong and we have been blessed to keep it as such a big following for all the years in existence. “Our members, who are hawkers/ stall owners, come from all over Cape Town including Mitchells Plain, Lost City, Manenberg and Hanover Park.I am a hawker myself and our troupe has been built on that foundation and has grown in numbers over the years. We pride ourselves on what we do for the community and while sponsorships are always hard to come by we can say that we can do outreach and annually feed about 200 people.” Over years the sport has evolved, with many changes, himself not being immune. “I served on two boards already and we know there is conflict going on but what I can say is that it is all about jealousy at the end of the day but we know what our communities want and that is for the klopse to perform and that’s what we give them. “For me, I have a passion for the sport and I just enjoy myself in it. If you are involved in the klopse, you must have a passion for it. I am especially very excited about the competitions coming up and while the funding is scarce and you see the money you put into it - you cry tonight but tomorrow morning you smile again because you realise it was all worth it,” said Poromano. Co-founder of the supertroupe, Playaz Inc, Bred Scholtz, said he was “born into klopse”. “There is no other way to describe it and a lot of people will tell you the same, they were born into the klopse and it's been a part of our tradition for years. “I was a part of a super troupe before co-founding Playaz Inc with Achmat Williams during 2017 and since our first year breaking away from my former troupe, we have had a huge following. I think the dream, if you’re involved in the klopse, is to own your own troupe and grow it in your community and that is exactly what happened with Playaz Inc. “Klopse are made in the road in our communities and our troupe has done exactly that being a troupe from Lentegeur in Mitchells Plain. We entertain many people but you are nothing without your community and we have been able to drive our numbers, being a troupe of about 1200 members, from giving back to the community and being involved in our community. “I always say that if you join the klopse you must know that you will hardly make any money from it. It’s like making a hole and throwing your money in that hole but the passion for the sport remains. “Klopse used to be for the poorest of the poor but it has become expensive and if nothing happens in the next two years, we won’t be able to sustain it,” said Scholtz. Founder of InnieKaap website, Nazeem Davids, said while numbers dwindled this year, it was still exciting to have troupes back on the road and entertaining communities. “Klopse is unique across the world and there is just nothing else like it. Communities are now getting ready to support their various teams at the competition stages over the next few weeks and this is a very exciting time for all as they battle it out to take home the crowns of especially Klopse Jol and Best Group Song. “Troupes go to the extremes to participate in the various categories and communities are excited to fill up the stands to support.” Cape Times