Cape Town - As universities gear up for registration and orientation activities, UCT’s executive says it is working towards averting a possible three-day industrial action by academic staff. Staff affiliated to the UCT Academics Union (AU) are preparing to go on strike for the first time in the university's history after wage negotiations reached a deadlock. This is after they were offered a 3% pay increase for the 2023 year which they have since labelled as insulting and derisory. The union said in a poll, 87% of its members had shown willingness to join the protest action, expected to be three-days or more.  The strike may affect a number of academic activities including the release of the 2022 supplementary exam results, 2023 registration and academic teaching. According to the union, universities historically used as comparators in setting pay increases have been able to offer their employees at least a 6% increase. “We find it hard to accept that UCT, as one of the premier universities in South Africa, is unable to match the pay increases offered by other higher education institutions. “The insult of the 3% pay offer is further compounded by the university having budgeted for an R183 million increase in student financial aid (a 106% increase from 2022). “Matching the pay increases offered by other universities would cost an additional approximately R90 million. “This is not greed on the part of academic staff at UCT,” said AU salary bargaining team leader, Professor Kelley Moult. AU president professor Andrew Lilley said the university bargaining team allegedly consistently failed to return with a revised mandate since December last year despite being given ample opportunity to do so. “The time has come for academic staff to make it clear in no uncertain terms that they reject the offer made by the university management,” said Lilley. Nehawu provincial secretary Baxolise Mali said they will not be part of the planned strike action as it was a dispute involving academics union, and not other trade unions in UCT. “This is because the current negotiations are taking place in terms of pay classes, and in this one we have no sufficient number to negotiate on behalf of academics. The bargaining for our members in different pay classes is yet to take place,” said Mali. According to Vice-Chancellor professor Mamokgethi Phakeng, the executive has been working tirelessly and has engaged with the AU over wage negotiations. “This has been taking place against the backdrop of very challenging and unusual circumstances. “These include a very difficult current economic climate. “There is currently an ongoing process to address the issues that have arisen, and we are confident that it will yield an acceptable outcome soon. “It is important to emphasise that the executive is approaching every step of the process in compliance with the university’s governance procedures.” Phakeng said it must be noted that it was not unusual for UCT to have not reached an agreement with any of the unions at this point of the year. “Such is the nature of wage negotiations that it is not always possible to reach an agreement within an ideal time-frame given the demands from recognised unions and other factors that the university needs to consider,” Phakeng. Cape Times