Cape Town - The Competition Commission says it continues to monitor excessive pricing on school clothing items, to ensure compliance with its guidelines. In December 2020, the Commission and the Department of Basic Education produced school uniform guidelines to ensure uniforms were as generic as possible. Reduction in the number of unique uniform items that needed to be acquired from pre-selected suppliers; parents being able to exercise their choice as consumers; and schools being required to manage a competitive bidding process before committing to service providers were among the stipulations. Commission spokesperson Siyabulela Makunga said: “There is an encouraged awareness and compliance with room for improvement of course. Last year between August and October, we conducted a national survey working with the Department of Basic Education. 401 schools - 60% of which were public and 30% private - responded positively. The survey revealed that 89% of schools know about the school uniform guidelines, with 51% already complying.” Meanwhile, community activist Kevin Alexander said financially challenged parents were unable to afford the current demands placed on them for school stationery items that need to be purchased at department stores and commercial stationers. “This is a very real concern in a climate of high unemployment and ridiculous prices of basic needs like food, clothing and housing. A large percentage of our learners at regular government schools come from single parent homes, where often the parent has to provide for more than one child attending school. Often the parent has to pay rent, buy food, pay for travelling with a very limited income or even with a state grant. This issue needs to be addressed urgently,” he said. The unreasonable costs of basic education in South Africa in general, but especially in the Western Cape must be emphasised and addressed as a matter of urgency,” he said. The Competition Commission has appealed to parents to remain vigilant and actively get involved in decision-making at schools before reporting suspected anti-competitive conduct with the Commission via email ccsa@ compcom.co.za or our website www. compcom.co.za Cape Times