Cape Town - The hard work of teachers at Siphamandla Senior Secondary in Kuyasa, Khayelitsha, saw the school achieve a 96.5% pass rate. And the dedication of pupils who worked hard despite challenging circumstances has resulted in their achieving their goal of entry into university, and paving the way to a brighter future. The school’s pass rate showed a 3% increase from last year’s 93.5%. Jim Likho,17, from Enkanini, raised by a single mother in difficult circumstances, made his teachers and family proud with five distinctions. “I worked very hard. I studied two hours a day per subject, took a break and then studied another two hours on another subject. I achieved a seven in accounting, seven in business studies, seven in economics, seven in life orientation, seven in maths literacy, a six in isiXhosa and a six in English.” Jim wants to become a social worker and his dream is to build a house for his family. “I want to help children who do not have the necessary resources, I want them to know that there are people who care about them.” He will be starting his undergraduate degree in social work at UCT. Jim’s advice to young people is: “Open your books right now. Young people must work hard from the beginning of the year, don’t wait till the end.” For 18-year-old Mila Dolo, the year was tough with her mother falling ill and being unable to work, so Mila had to play caretaker after school. “My mom got kidney failure and had a transplant a few years later, then she worked as a cleaner. Last year she got very sick again so she couldn't work again. I received food from my teachers because we didn’t have groceries, and I couldn’t concentrate at school, I was worried about her. “I took care of her after school. At the end of the year, by God's grace she was well, and started working again.” Mila achieved two distinctions and plans to study towards a BA degree at Rhodes University. “I also want to pursue a LLB because I would love to go into family law. With the support of my teachers, what got me through this year was my determination; when you know exactly what you want and you go for it, no matter what you are going through, you will succeed” she said. Economics teacher Priscilla Gabuza said she was proud of her pupils. “Most of our learners come from a very poor background and they are the first class who came through the Covid pandemic, they could not attend classes every day. “Then there has also been load shedding. Many live in informal settlements so it is not easy for them to study, (there are) single parent homes and mothers in many cases are not working. “There is one who came to school with no shoes. We make sure those who do Grade 12 leave their uniforms for next year.” Gabuza said they also made sure that pupils had morning, afternoon, weekend and holiday classes. “We also have a nutrition programme so we make sure they are eating, and those who are alone fending for themselves, we send them home with some food.” A big part of the school’s strategy also involved having former pupils come back to motivate the new cohorts. Overall the provincial matric pass rate was 81.4%, with 49 102 candidates passing their exams. Western Cape Education MEC David Maynier said: “The Class of 2022 has done an outstanding job in tough circumstances.” We can’t wait to see what comes next on their journey, and urge them to retain their fighting spirit and their commitment to building their own bright futures.” Cape Times