Cape Town - The  50th celebration of the iconic cross-Atlantic Cape2Rio yacht race took off on Monday, with 16 teams competing in the iconic 3 300 nautical mile (around 6 000km) race, dubbed the “adventure of a lifetime. Crew members hailing from Masiphumelele, Khayelitsha, Grassy Park and Athlone, who were trained by the Royal Cape Yacht Club’s (RCYC) Sailing Academy, were among those who set sail. The Alexforbes ArchAngel team is made of Skipper Sibusiso Sizatu 30, first mate Daniel Agulhas 29, Renaldo Tshepo Mohale 29, Azile Arosi 22 and Justin Peters, 21. “It’s the day we have all been waiting for – the most exciting moment of my life. Our game plan is to stay more south on the Atlantic, closer to the coast to keep the wind with us. After Namibia we sail in and go as close as St Helena, before changing course to stick with the winds,” Sizatu said. The yacht race is the longest continent-to-continent yacht race in the southern hemisphere.  The blue-water dash across the South Atlantic Ocean started on Monday for the Cruising Class or “slower” boats. The RCYC said it was proud of its teams from the Sailing Academy who will be competing under the banner of Alexforbes Archangels. “Sailors are set to cross the Atlantic Ocean in pursuit of the 18ct gold stylised boat hull and sails South Atlantic Trophy awarded to the winner of the Cape to Rio Race.  “In its golden jubilee, the first race set off from Table Bay in 1971 and from the start attracted huge international interest and is the longest continent-to-continent yacht race in the southern hemisphere.” The race distance varies between 3 400 and 4 500 nautical miles due to varying South American destinations which include Punta del Este in Uruguay, and recently Salvador, State of Bahia in Brazil. Supporters can follow the team on the live tracker at www.cape2rio.live “We wish the team trained by the Royal Cape Yacht Club Sailing Academy and sponsored by Alexforbes well as they will not only represent South Africa but the hopes of various communities in the Cape who have never dreamt of participating in a competition of such great magnitude. Their yacht is called Alexforbes Archangel; I encourage all South Africans to share their messages of support and encouragement with the teams. Good luck with the final preparations. May you enjoy fair winds and following seas,” Andrews said.