Cape Town - The South African Comprehensive Assessment Institute (SACAI) has attributed the 2022 matric pass rate which dropped from 76% to 72%, to the increased number of pupils received last year. Sacai, one of the three National Senior Certificate (NSC) assessment bodies which serves online educational institutions and Independent schools, released its results on Wednesday. The Sacai cohort managed to obtain 1 474 bachelors passes, 866 qualified to study towards a diploma and 343 achieved a pass that will enable them to study towards a higher certificate qualification. Sacai had 4 951 Grade 12 candidates who wrote the NSC exams, a 24% increase. “This is a slight decrease of 4% on the 2021 pass rate of 76% and can be attributed to the increase in learner numbers in 2022. “The Sacai candidates achieved a combined number of 1 302 distinctions in 2022, this is a 32% improvement from 2021. Candidates in the Western Cape did the best with a 77% pass rate, followed by Gauteng with a 74% pass rate,” said Sacai chief executive officer Keith Maseko. The top performing Institutions were Qurtuba Online and Syllabus Learning. About 17 Institutions had a 100% pass rate. Maseko said they were “extremely” proud of the candidates. He said they had made great progress in establishing a home for distance education and online schooling as an alternative to traditional schooling that faces the challenge of space to accommodate the number of learners applying for placement. “Distance education providers and repeater centres that operate as a school, should register with the relevant Provisional Education Department and seek accreditation through Umalusi. It is time for South Africa to learn, unlearn and relearn how education is delivered to a new generation of learners that will need to compete and survive in the 4th and now the 5th industrial revolution” said Maseko. Sacai’s results came out the same day the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) celebrated private schools which produced outstanding results with a 98.42% pass rate. On Thursday the department of basic education (DBE) will announce the results of the public schools and their top achievers. DBE spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said the department was ready to release the results.  “The top achievers have arrived. As has been the tradition the minister (Angie Motshekga) will host the learners and parents for a congratulatory breakfast in the morning. A technical briefing to unpack the NSC results in greater detail in the afternoon will be held,” he said. Cape Times