Cape Town - Driving under the influence of alcohol remains a  major concern as the Table View Community Police Forum (CPF) made 15 drunk-driving arrests in a joint operation in one day at the weekend.  The suspects, who were arrested on Saturday, were all released on a warning to appear in court. In another successful operation, two suspects were arrested after robbing a 19-year-old at gunpoint.  Table View police spokesperson Captain Adriana Chandler said the victim had approached a police van with a bloodied face and informed officers of the incident.  “He informed the officers that he had been robbed at gunpoint by two unknown men of his skateboard and cellphone. The young victim told the officers that he was walking at the corners of Avonmouth Crescent and St Johns Street with skateboard in hand, when the two suspects approached him from behind.  “They demanded his skateboard and cellphone, and then hit him in the face with a firearm. He then noticed the police vehicle and ran towards it for help. The officers immediately started their search for the suspects and apprehended them not far from the crime scene.  “The suspects, both 18 years old, were arrested and the stolen property and an imitation firearm were confiscated. The stolen property was handed back to the owner,” she said.  Other arrests made at the weekend included contempt of court, theft, shoplifting, malicious damage to property, possession of drugs, dealing in drugs and assault.  Police have also urged residents not to leave valuables in their vehicle after a vehicle was broken into outside a fast food restaurant in Parklands.  “The owner locked his laptop inside the vehicle, attended a meeting, and afterwards returned to his home in Rondebosch and then discovered the laptop stolen. There was no forced entry, and the use of a jamming device could not be excluded.  Video footage at the fast food outlet revealed that a suspect gained entry by opening the door of the vehicle and removing the laptop,” said Chandler.  Cape Times