Cape Town - Four suspects have been arrested on animal cruelty charges after they were found stoning a Cape fur seal on Sunday evening at Monwabisi Beach, Khayelitsha. The Cape of Good Hope SPCA were alerted to a group of men who were observed trying to kill an adult Cape fur seal by throwing big rocks at it while it was trapped and unable to escape at about 6pm on Sunday. The City has also condemned the attack. According to a statement by the CoGH SPCA, swift action by a City of Cape Town Law Enforcement Officer on the scene ensured that the suspects were stopped in their tracks and detained until SPCA inspector Werner Taljaard and trainee inspector Eugene Links could arrive to rescue the seal. “The seal was rushed to a private 24-hour veterinary practice where it was humanely euthanised due to the severity of injuries it had sustained in the stoning. The attending veterinarian reported that the seal had suffered severe facial and skull fractures, was bleeding profusely from the mouth, had one of its eyes crushed and that most of its teeth had been completely broken off in its mouth,” the SPCA said. SPCA Wildlife officer Jon Friedman said seeing the broken condition the animal was in when it was carried off the beach made his blood run cold.  “Not in 37 years of working in wildlife welfare have I seen such a case of abject cruelty visited on a defenceless animal that was in all likelihood just minding its own business.” The CoGH SPCA said according to one of the suspects, who were questioned as to what their motive was in trying to kill the seal, he explained that he and a group of friends had “been approached by a traditional healer who pointed out the seal to them and offered them R3 000 to kill the seal”. Animal cruelty charges have been laid against the suspects in terms of the Animals Protection Act 71 of 1962 at the Harare SAPS. Deputy mayor Eddie Andrews said this was one of the most brutal attacks on local wildlife in recent times.  “I am shocked and horrified and call on the public to please keep on notifying us when they see animals being attacked, harmed or in distress. “Cape Town is fortunate to have a coastline that is teeming with wildlife. We need to respect and treasure these animals. I want to remind the public to please keep a safe and respectful distance from marine animals at all times, and to not interfere or feed them. Pets should be removed where wildlife are present,” said Andrews. In case of any injured, hurt or coastal wildlife in distress, contact the City at 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or 107 from a landline. Cape Times