Cape Town - A Cape Town businessman will appear in court again next month on charges that he assaulted his wife and daughter. This comes after the alleged incident was captured by the couple’s closed circuit television, and shared widely on social media. AfriForum’s Private Prosecution Unit said they met with the woman who is now being assisted by them to prepare her case. #DomesticViolence A girl protects her mom from her dad. The Cape Town businessman denied he “abused” his wife - says the conduct was “inappropriate behavior”. The Private Prosecution Unit is supporting mother and child. The man appeared in court yesterday charged with assault. pic.twitter.com/tpXoI2hOpj “The brutal reality of gender-based violence has again been laid bare with the emergence of shocking surveillance footage depicting a man purportedly assaulting his wife as their daughter tries to protect her mother. “AfriForum’s Private Prosecution Unit is acting on behalf of the mother and child. The accused man made an appearance in the Bellville Magistrate’s Court in Cape Town on several charges of assault (on Tuesday). The identities of the parties are being withheld because a minor is central to the case. The surveillance footage will form part of the evidence against the accused, who is a successful businessman based in Cape Town,” a statement by AfriForum read. The businessman was previously arrested for the alleged assault of his wife during August  2018. He was later granted bail. “Unfortunately years of physical and emotional abuse had taken its toll on the woman and her daughter. Her then attorney told the prosecutor that they were emotionally unfit to testify – the case was subsequently withdrawn,” AfriForum said. The unit’s spokesperson, Barry Bateman, thanked the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for placing the matter back on the roll after the woman withdrew her case due to being emotionally unfit to testify. “We will keep a close eye on this case to ensure justice is done. We appeal to victims of gender-based violence to speak out and seek support,” said Bateman. The matter will be before court again on February 16. Comment from SAPS and the NPA were expected in due course.  Cape Times