Cape Town - The Hawks say more arrests are imminent following a botched cash-in transit robbery and robbery of a firearm during an attack on a cash van outside Mossel Bay. This came after they arrested two suspects, aged 32 and 36, for the December 6 attack, in which an armoured Fidelity Cash Solutions company vehicle was attacked and one of the security guards was robbed of his official firearm by six men at an Engen garage. Hawks spokesperson Zinzi Hani said: “They then tried to access the vault of the vehicle, but didn’t succeed in accessing the cash. They left the scene in a getaway vehicle that was later found abandoned. “Through preliminary investigation, one of the suspects was identified and on January 4 (Wednesday), the George DPCI National Priority Violent Crimes Investigation (Unit), together with members of the Garden Route Flying Squad (acted on) information received and arrested two suspects in the Thembalethu area.” They were expected to appear in the Mossel Bay Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600101111 or use the MySaps mobile app. Meanwhile, Gqeberha police have launched a manhunt for the suspects behind a business robbery at a tavern in Joe Slovo where two were shot dead, while four managed to escape. A 9mm pistol with the serial number filed off, six rounds of ammunition, a signal jammer, a CCTV camera, the cellphone of the complainant and a grey Toyota Corolla – reported stolen in November 2022 at Motherwell –were recovered. Police spokesperson Sandra Janse van Rensburg said: “It is alleged that on Tuesday, January 3, at approximately 8.45pm, the owner of a tavern in Vusumzi Street in Joe Slovo was busy inside when a suspect entered and threatened the complainant. “Approximately five other suspects, all armed, also entered the tavern. Patrons inside the tavern were robbed of their cellphones. The (suspects) all left the tavern with the cellphones and an undisclosed amount from the cash register. “Nelson Mandela Bay District Crime Combating Unit (CCU) members were confronted by the suspects as they were exiting, after they acted on information of a robbery in progress at the tavern at about 9.30pm,” Van Rensburg said. “During the confrontation, two suspects were fatally wounded, while four managed to escape. “Police are appealing to anyone who may know the whereabouts of the suspects to contact SAPS Kwadwesi, on 0824420964,” said Van Rensburg. Cape Times