Cape Town - The provincial human settlements department has urged the public to be aware of online housing scams that request people to pay for government housing assistance. The department said it recently learnt of a WhatsApp message that is being circulated, claiming to assist residents in receiving a house within two weeks. Residents are then requested to pay R2,300 for the approval letter and title deed in order to receive a housing opportunity. Specific areas targeted include Khayelitsha, Stellenbosch, Montana, Paarl and Mitchells Plain. “Residents should be aware that no payment is required to be placed on the housing demand database (i.e. waiting list), to apply for a housing subsidy, or any related government housing service. The request for payment should alert residents to the offer being a scam,” the department said on Thursday. During 2022, the department became aware of several Facebook accounts making similar claims to assist residents to receive a government housing opportunity for a fee. In one particular Facebook Account, “RDP House Application 2022/2023”, the individual claimed to be an employee of the department. “Fraudulent scams have increasingly been reported and appear on different platforms, particularly on social media, requesting citizens to either: pay a deposit or holding fee for a government house; to pay to be approved for a government housing opportunity; or to pay for the processing of an application for example,” the department said. The department’s acting director for communication, Muneera Allie, added that perpetrators often have some knowledge of how government housing works and go as far as to create fraudulent approval letters and correspondence that may appear authentic and lawful. “During 2022, one victim arranged for a R2000 loan in order to pay for an ‘approval letter’. Due to the nature of these scams and false social media accounts created to rip off residents, it is challenging to crack down on these con artists,” Allie said. Residents are advised to contact the Department, or any municipal housing office, to verify and check a housing social media post or advertisement’s legitimacy. To report any fraudulent scams, contact the nearest police station for assistance. Cape Times