Cape Town – Four men were recently handed hefty sentences in the Western Cape High Court for their involvement in gang related crimes and murder in Ravensmead in 2019, including the killing of a four-year-old child and her grandfather. Dawnay Davids, Mahlubandile Jacobs, Moegamat Swarts and Vincent Davids were convicted on charges including murder, attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm on October 14 last year and were sentenced on Thursday. Police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi said members of the “Ama don’t care” gang arrived at a residence in Geranium Street in Ravensmead on March 25, 2019, with the intention to extort the resident. “They returned the next day March 26, 2019 for more protection money, and the resident resisted their actions. “Later in the day unknown males returned to the house, firing gunshots at the victim, fatally wounding Christopher Cornelius and his four-year-old grandchild Likeshia Joubert,” Swartbooi said. On April 7 2019, the only witness Glenda Ruiters was gunned down in Erica Road by unknown men while her daughter, Nikita, escaped injuries when the gang members shot at them. “The investigating officer attached to the Anti-Gang unit was committed to bring the perpetrators to book. He pursued every bit of information and subsequently arrested and detained four suspects,” Swartbooi said. Bail was successfully opposed for the suspects and they were remanded in custody for the full duration of the trial. “The investigating officer faced a massive onslaught from the defence lawyers in a bid to derail him. The detective however kept his focus on the Judge, calmly stating the facts as he was on the crime scenes and was in the best position to paint a credible picture. The investigating officer was lauded as a credible investigator,” Swartbooi said. Davids was sentenced to twenty years for the murders of Cornelius and Likeshia, five years for the possession of an unlicensed firearm and five years for the possession of unlicensed ammunition. Jacobs was sentenced to three life terms for the murders of Cornelius, Likeshia and Ruiters. Jacobs was also handed ten years for the possession of an unlicensed firearm, and twelve years for the possession of unlicensed ammunition. Swarts was sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for the murder of Ruiters, ten years for the attempted murder on Nikita and eight years for the possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition Davids was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of Ruiters and 12 years for the possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Western Cape Police Commissioner Thembisile Patekile lauded the investigating officer for a sterling investigation.  Cape Times