Cape Town - While unions have applauded the work of those who arrested a Vanrhynsdorp Correctional Centre official and three other suspects for drug dealing, they have called for an example to be set, claiming corrupt officers must not only be sanctioned but dismissed. It was the arrest of two people who were allegedly transporting drugs that led to the tracing and arrest of the Department of Correctional Services (DCS) officer. Members of the provincial traffic department were conducting a road patrol on Tuesday when they stopped a Mazda sedan on the N7 between Vanrhynsdorp and Klawer. According to provincial police spokesperson, Andrè Traut, a search resulted in the arrest of a 33-year-old Congolese national and a 21-year-old, who has now been identified to be from Klawer, with mandrax tablets valued at R51 600. A joint operation between police and the traffic officials was initiated after further information related to the drugs was received. “The subsequent investigation led various SAPS units and provincial traffic to an address in Vanrhynsdorp where a 41-year-old female and her 20-year-old daughter were arrested with mandrax tablets and tik valued at more than R1.2 million, and cash to the value of R17 800.  The 41-year-old suspect was identified as a member of Correctional Services. The circumstances leading to the arrest are still under investigation,” said Traut He said the money was believed to be the proceeds of drug trafficking. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson, Eric Ntabazalila, confirmed the four accused made their first appearance at the Vanrhynsdorp Magistrate’s Court on Thursday where they face a charge of dealing in drugs. The matter was postponed to January 12 for bail application information. Western Cape police commissioner, Thembisile Patekile, hailed the officers for the arrest, "in particular the members of provincial traffic, whose actions sparked the seizure of such a large quantity of drugs in the rural outskirts of the province.” National Correctional Services Commissioner Makgothi Thobakgale on Wednesday also welcomed the arrest, saying they had zero tolerance for illegal activities at their correctional service centres. SA Sentenced and Awaiting Trial Prisoners Organisation (Sasapo) said: “DCS has been rotten since inception and people have held top positions for a long time with not much change. The issue is corrupt officials receive sanctions but do not get dismissed. More stringent measures are needed.” Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) provincial spokesperson Patrick Raolane welcomed the “breakthrough” by their members. “We congratulate our members who did not want corruption to take place in our prisons. This shows that not all our public servants are captured or don’t care about the law. “What we will not allow is a situation where people who should be rehabilitated or should be assisting with rehabilitation in our centres continue with illegal activities. The justice system and disciplinary measures must now take place. We also applaud commissioner Thobakgale for the job we have been seeing over this busy festive season.” Cape Times