Cape Town - The Simon’s Town Community Policing Forum (CPF) executive committee members have tendered their resignations, charging their requests for additional resources and staffing have been ignored. The group of ten members allege the SAPS provincial and national management have ignored their repeated requests, making it “impossible for them to perform their duties”. Former Simon’s Town CPF chairperson, Eileen Heywood, said they were left with no choice but to resign as they were unable to fulfil their mandate. “This, because of staffing limitations experienced by the public, where the SAPS have only two members on duty in the evening and the national requirement is a minimum of two officers in a vehicle, which would leave the station empty and unattended, which is also not allowed.  “The frustrations being announced by both the CPF and the public, especially during night times when policing services are required for serious incidents, are as a direct result of insufficient staffing to meet the minimal requirements for a station like Simon’s Town SAPS.” Heywood said the lack of additional resources and staffing has made the situation untenable and gave them no choice but to resign.  “Given the current increase in crimes, especially due to load shedding, we need these resources more than ever. Our mandate is to ensure that police meet our community policing needs. The status quo has become untenable. We cannot, as the CPF in good conscience, continue to accept this, hence our resignation.” CPF Southern Cluster executive member, Jonathan Mills, said it was concerning when an entire team resigned. “CPFs are a necessary part of community policing in South Africa. When an entire CPF made up of committed, experienced community volunteers resign all at once because they believe their local police service is not working properly, and the system in place to address those failures isn’t working either, then we as fellow CPF members and even as private citizens should be looking at it very closely,” said Mills. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Athlenda Mathe, said National Commissioner Fannie Masemola has called for the concerns raised by CPF structures to be looked into urgently. “The crucial and pivotal role that CPF members play in assisting the SAPS cannot be overemphasised. “Communities through their local CPF remain the eyes and ears of the SAPS. Since his appointment, General Masemola has prioritised the rejuvenation of CPFs. Part of his immediate priorities was to ensure these structures are functional and are well resourced. “He has directed the Divisional Commissioner of Visible Policing to look urgently into the matter to address the concerns raised by the structure to address the challenges.” Cape Times