Cape Town - Phola Park informal settlement leaders in Philippi are hoping a meeting, expected on Monday with City officials, will give fire victims a clear roadmap forward, as some families have been housed in a community hall following two separate devastating blazes in the area. About 378 people were left destitute after a fire destroyed 75 structures on Thursday. The blaze broke out around 2.15pm. The incident came as 760 people in the area were still counting the costs of losing everything when a fire razed 247 shacks to the ground last Sunday. Some residents were accommodated by relatives and friends, while others were housed in a nearby community hall. According to Phola Park committee chairperson Teenage Mthiyane, an agreement was reached with City officials that no resident would rebuild on the site. Phola Park was established in 2003 by irate residents who had allegedly been waiting for several years for houses. “On Monday, mayco member for human settlements Malusi Booi visited the scene after the New Year’s Day fire. “At the time the site was being cleared, and it was agreed that no one would rebuild (there). “A meeting was expected to be held on Wednesday, because we requested at least temporary housing. However, Mr Booi was a no-show. “Then the second fire happened, and during his visit he requested (that) we meet on Monday. We are hoping that this time around he commits to his word, because people can’t stay crammed in a hall for long,” said Mthiyane. He said if the meeting outcome provided no clear way forward, people, might be forced to rebuild on the site of the fire. “It’s going to be nearly two decades since people were promised houses. “Every City mayor has promised this, and the last one even showed us three potential sites. This land belongs to the City, but it’s not large enough to build houses for everyone,” said Mthiyane. Just two days after the Philippi fire, another disastrous blaze happened in Town Two, Khayelitsha, where 81 structures caught alight, leaving 192 people displaced on Saturday. Humanitarian organisation Gift of the Givers and Sassa have been providing humanitarian assistance to all the families in the various affected areas. Disaster Risk Management Centre spokesperson Charlotte Powell said Eskom would restore electricity to the site, while the Department of Water and Sanitation would attend to damaged infrastructure. “The Department of Home Affairs was also activated to assist residents with identity documents,” said Powell. Booi said much work had been done to verify beneficiaries and clear the sites. Specifically in terms of the second fire incident in (Phola Park), the City could only trace a number of verified beneficiaries, and work continues. I met with members of the community on-site, and further engagements with the City are planned in the week and weeks ahead. “There were requests from the community leadership for engagement, and the City has acknowledged those. The City continues to do all in its power to assist the verified affected residents,” he said. Cape Times