Cape Town - Toyota South Africa is yet to respond to the Motor Industry Ombudsman of South Africa (MIOSA), after 34-year-old Nobathembu Samente approached them in a desperate effort, following allegedly nightmarish service from the Toyota Cape Gate dealership. A Dekra report compiled within weeks after Samente received the vehicle, found several issues with the car, essentially rendering it a piece of scrap. The mother of two said: “I bought a Hyundai Creta 2018 model, on July 29, 2022 from Cape Gate Toyota. “Upon collection, my husband noticed that the spare tyre was worn out. “Toyota sent someone to collect the car two days later to fit the spare tyre and they brought it back after two days. “A few days later, I saw smoke coming from the bonnet and at home my husband noticed oil leaks where I park.”  Samente said the car then went back and forth between herself and the dealership for them to check the problem and resolve it, to no avail. The last time that the car was returned to her and the oil leak persisted, Samente then decided to take the car to Dekra for a full inspection. The Dekra report, seen by the Cape Times, noted that the engine had an oil leak; the battery box was defective; the lights were noted as defective and malfunctioning; and the control arm front axle right was also noted as defective, among other issues. On November 1, she said the car was again collected by the Toyota dealership after she showed them the report. The car is still with Toyota. In communication from Toyota to Samente’s financiers on December 15, they said they would make sure the vehicle was in a sound mechanical condition, which would also be validated by a comprehensive Dekra report after they had completed “all that needed to be done”, as they were “still waiting for parts”. However, later that month, they made her offers for other cars, but it was not comparable to the Creta, she said, which she chose to accommodate her family for the long-term and they would have “traded it in for the value of the broken car which is unfair”. “I do not want that car back, I am a woman with two small children. “I do not feel safe in that car after my experience. “My plea to them was to write off the contract with the bank, but they insisted that for that to happen, I will have to pay the outstanding interest. “Again, my reason for not wanting to pay the interest was that, it was not my choice or decision to cancel the contract, I was unfortunate to be sold a damaged car by one of the biggest dealerships in South Africa, which I considered trustworthy, why was I now penalised for their mistake?” she asked. Samente said she has had to continue paying the car instalment of R5 300 per month and car insurance of more than R800 for a car she hasn’t driven for months. MIOSA said they were investigating the matter. MIOSA assistant manager for head of case management, Rejoice Ngwenya, said: “Our office was closed for the festive season. “When we opened, this complaint was duly referred to the respondent (Toyota) on the 18th of January, in order to solicit a response to the allegations set out in the complainant’s submission. “We are still awaiting a response from the dealership and can only advise accordingly and finalise this complaint when we receive a response.” The respondent (Toyota) will be afforded a period of 10 business days to respond to the matter. The MIOSA said they determined a dispute within 30 days from the date it has received all the necessary documentation. Meanwhile Toyota South Africa did not respond to repeated requests for comment this week. Cape Times