Cape Town - A jealous rage that ended in murder has landed Phillip April a life-long prison term after he was sentenced in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday for the 2019 killing of his ex-girlfriend. April pleaded guilty to the murder of Alison Plaaitjies, denying that it was premeditated and offering a plea explanation in which he said he and the slain teacher were romantically involved at the time of her murder. He said that during a heated argument, he stabbed her to death. The State, however, rejected his “watered down” plea explanation. Acting judge Nontuthuzelo Ralarala sentenced April to life imprisonment and five years direct imprisonment for the premeditated murder of Plaatjies, and for the theft of her vehicle that he drove for two days after the murder. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the successful prosecution was a result of the State’s charging April with premeditated murder. “Initially, April pleaded guilty to the murder of his ex-girlfriend, but State Advocate Rene Uys rejected it as she strongly felt that he left out vital evidence in his gruesomeness of gender-based violent crime and denied that he stole her vehicle,” said Ntabazalila. Five State witnesses confirmed that the couple were separated at the time of the murder, and gave testimony that April was “abusive, possessive, and controlling and had told the deceased that if he couldn’t have her, nobody would”. Pathologist Dr Linda Liebenberg testified that bite marks on Plaatjies’ face had to be the most painful of her injuries, due to the sensitive nature of facial tissue. Dr Liebenberg also testified that Plaatjies had wounds on her face, her back, the back of her neck and wounds on her hands indicating that she fought back. The SAPS lauded the investigation work done by  Detective Warrant Officer Jannie Goeieman. “In October 2019, the body of Allison was found in her place of residence by friends who were concerned by her sudden disappearance. Her throat had been slit with three different knives and her vehicle was missing. During the investigation, her vehicle was recovered from the accused, who was her boyfriend at the time. He pleaded guilty on the charge of murder but denied stealing the vehicle,” the police said.  Cape Times