Cape Town - Serial rapist Mthetheleli Makhanda was sentenced to five life terms in the Wynberg Regional Court this week. Makhanda, 24, was convicted on six counts of rape, two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances and two counts of housebreaking with intent to commit an offence. Police spokesperson Ndakhe Gwala said: “The Western Cape SAPS management hails the Provincial Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit for the successful conviction of Makhanda. Makhanda appeared in the Wynberg Regional court on Tuesday. “In 2016, (Makhanda) raped a 42-year-old woman in Nyanga. He had asked the victim, who was acquainted with him, for her house keys claiming he wanted to take a nap. As she opened the room, the suspect got inside and grabbed her, pushing her to the bed and he raped her.  “In 2017, between September 20 and November 5, the accused raped two children, aged 11, and a 37-year-old woman. The suspect found an 11-year-old girl alone in her Gugulethu home at around 4.30pm. He asked for water and the unsuspecting victim let him in. Once he was inside, he grabbed a knife, threatening the child and he raped her,” said Gwala. In another incident, he entered the home of a 37-year-old woman in Gugulethu at around 12.15pm demanding money and a cellular telephone. He locked her 8-year-old son in the toilet and raped the woman. “He used the same modus operandi in Delft with another 11-year-old victim, who was home alone. He knocked and she opened the door, when he pulled out a knife and raped her,” Gwala said. Makhanda was arrested in 2019 after DNA evidence linked him to all the cases. “A strong case was built by the investigating officer Detective Captain Wendell Taudie of the Provincial FCS and his team, while the suspect remained in custody,” said Gwala. Makhanda was found guilty on 11 counts, and sentenced to five life terms and 10 years for rape, 30 years for two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances and six years for two counts of house breaking. Cape Times