Cape Town - Several parents of the Enyobeni tavern victims are set to picket outside Cape Town’s City Hall, which will host Sona on Thursday, calling for President Cyril Ramaphosa to address alcohol harm and liquor sales to minors. This follows the death of 21 teenagers, the youngest aged 13, at the Enyobeni tavern in Scenery Park, East London, in June last year. A toxicology report into the deaths of the youngsters suggested that they had suffocated due to overcrowding. Speaking at the mass funeral in July last year, Ramaphosa called for relevant regulatory bodies to ensure that alcohol is not marketed or sold to children and adolescents. Ntombizonke Mgangala, who lost her niece, Sinothando Mgangala, said Ramaphosa made promises during the funeral, but nothing has been done.  “We sent a petition in November seeking for justice in the matter. We are expecting him to respond to the petition. We want an alcohol-safe country where citizens are using alcohol safely. We believe that this will be implemented only if government is doing its part by making sure that alcohol outlets are obeying and complying to rules and regulations. “We also want government to commit to not leaving any stone unturned to see what happened to our kids and bring the people responsible to justice,“ Mgangala said.  Southern African Alcohol Policy Alliance in South Africa (Saapa SA) spokesperson Terri-Liza Fortein said they are urging the government to pass new laws to reduce alcohol harm and bolster enforcement of existing laws to curb underage drinking. “South Africans need swift and urgent action from government to change the situation in our communities. In June 2022, we saw the Enyobeni tragedy resulting in the deaths of 21 children under the age of 18 in a tavern. The Liquor Amendment Bill of 2017 must be passed urgently. The clauses in the Basic Education Laws Amendment Bill proposing that alcohol can be sold at school functions must be scrapped,” said Fortein.  The case against Enyobeni tavern owner Vuyokazi Ndevu and her husband, Siyakhangela Ndevu, is expected to be heard at the East London Magistrate’s Court in April.  They are facing a charge of contravening the Liquor Act and two offences of selling or supplying intoxicating liquor to persons under the age of 18. Cape Times