Cape Town - Two were born as healthy babies, but developed disabilities as they grew older, while another one was diagnosed with bone cancer three days before her final matric exams.  But they never allowed this to define them. Former pupils Luca Crouse from Parklands College, Shimé van den Bergh, who went to Hoër Meisiesskool Bloemhof, and Adrienne Murray from Pionierskool, were among the class of 2022 honoured at the Western Cape National Senior Certificate Awards on Thursday. The awards are hosted annually at Premier Alan Winde’s official residence to celebrate pupils who had excelled. Crouse and Van den Bergh bagged the special ministerial award, while Murray received the excellence despite barriers to learning award. At the tender age of five, Crouse was diagnosed with speech apraxia, a speech-sound disorder that prevents him from communicating verbally. He requires a facilitator to stabilise his hand in order to write. The 19-year-old’s parents insisted their son would attend mainstream school despite his school being concerned that he might not be able to cope with the academic demands. Crouse’s mother, Irene Crouse, said: “The school was very hesitant to accept him, but my husband and I insisted. I saw his capabilities and I knew if we could just open that door he would perform well. He is like a trailblazer, going ahead and showing the world that having a disability is not a death sentence,” she said. Crouse’s courage and commitment paid off; he achieved an average of 82% with four distinctions. He is expected to further his studies in America. What started as a severe leg pain for Van den Bergh, and which led to two surgeries and a growth being removed, was identified as cancer three days before her final exams began. “It was a very difficult period because I had to go to hospital a few times in between writing exams. What drove me to succeed are my goals. I really want to study medicine and know good marks are required. However, I have decided to take a gap year because I still have a few months of chemo,” Van den Bergh said. She obtained seven distinctions and a 91.3% average. Murray, from Worcester, was diagnosed with eye cancer as a baby, and lost her sight aged 13. Last year she developed neuralgia, and also migraines. She was in and out of hospital. “My Grade 12 year was a bit tough because of the health challenges, but I passed with four distinctions at least, and had a 75% average. I’m satisfied, considering what I went through.” Murray hopes to study at Stellenbosch University. Cape Times