Cape Town - The dignity of pupils in Dunoon and Joe Slovo, who started the 2023 academic year wearing flip flops, boots and worn out takkies, was restored when they received brand new school shoes and supplies on Monday. The faces of children from Silver Leaf Primary School in Dunoon and Marconi Beam Primary School in Joe Slovo lit up as they received some of the 200 pairs of school shoes, dental kits from Aquafresh, backpacks, and other essentials. The School Readiness Campaign was held by the Justice and Correctional Services ministry, in partnership with the Department of Basic Education (DBE). All donations were made possible through the poverty alleviation fund, to which correctional service officials voluntarily contribute monthly for the upliftment of poor communities. It is also part of the DCS build-up activities for the State of the Nation Address (Sona) to be delivered on Thursday by President Cyril Ramaphosa.  The two townships in Milnerton are among many disadvantaged communities in Cape Town. Justice and Correctional Services Deputy Minister, Phathekile Holomisa and DBE Deputy Minister Reginah Mhaule handed the items to pupils. Correctional Services national commissioner, Makgothi Thobakgale was also in attendance. Marconi Beam principal Lumka Mqandeni-Boya said each school received 100 pairs of shoes. “Our children come from disadvantaged backgrounds and with Covid-19, many families were left with no breadwinners. Some parents died and others were retrenched. These are families where one household has seven or more family members,” said Mqandeni-Boya. Holomisa said reaching out to pupils in need ensured they attended school comfortably. “Children must not have a burden of worrying about shoes when they see their fellow learners wearing shoes while they themselves did not have shoes or relied on worn-out pairs of shoes. Education is the key to success, it does not matter that one comes from a poor or disadvantaged background, through education, one could become successful and venture into a career that will enable one to become a president, minister, deputy minister or teacher and contribute positively in his or her communities.” Western Cape Education Department spokesperson, Millicent Merton, said the department was represented by the director of the Metro North Education District, Wendy Horn. “The Department of Correctional Services assisted the two schools with clean-up in the past. The schools are no-fee schools and serve some of the poorest communities,” said Merton. Cape Times