Cape Town - The City has seemingly made an about-turn on threatening to demolish a wall that fed-up Elsies River residents are erecting to keep criminals out. Residents this week started erecting the wall to block a passageway that they claim suspects used as a thoroughfare between criminal activities. Out of desperation, the residents used their own money to buy the building materials after accusing the City of failing to respond to their application for a wall to be built about four years ago. The City this week ordered the residents to halt building and allegedly threatened to demolish the wall. According to Salberau Neighbourhood Watch chairperson, Pastor Paul Francis, there were two passageways the community wanted to be closed due to high levels of crime. “In 2019 residents approached the neighbourhood watch because of safety concerns. “We were told the process is that the community must make a petition which includes police crime statistics and the neighbours who live on both sides of the passage must submit that and an application. “This was done and we were told the matter was in the hands of the planning department of the City. “We requested an update but unfortunately we never got a response,” said Francis. He said last year, a policeman was found murdered in the passageway, which escalated safety fears. “Criminals come in and out of those passages. Children stone people because there are no lights there, people get robbed and recently two community members were stabbed. A stolen taxi was also dumped there. So the community decided enough was enough and we started building. “However, the law enforcement came to the site and stopped the building. “They instructed one of the residents to write a letter to the City and we did. There is little hope. “The community knows the wall is illegal but we had to put our safety first.” Francis said on Monday they sent another application so that they could continue to build, and were waiting for a response which they believed would come from the mayor's office. “There are two other safer ways the community uses, there is enough lighting and police also sometimes conduct roadblocks near there.” City Law Enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason on Wednesday said law enforcement engaged the community, who indicated they would apply to have the wall remain. “No further action will be taken pending the outcome of the aforementioned application. “As indicated before, the South African Police Service is the primary agency responsible for crime prevention. The City’s enforcement agencies work in support of SAPS, and conduct as many proactive patrols and enforcement operations as resources allow. “However, given the many competing demands on our resources, it is not possible to remain static in any particular area on an ongoing basis,” said Dyason. Cape Times