Cape Town - The local football fraternity is reeling in shock following the murder of promising soccer star Oshwin Andries, who was stabbed to death at the weekend. Messages of condolence have poured in for Andries, 20, who hailed from Cloetesville and played defender for the Stellenbosch Football Club. In a statement, Stellenbosch Football Club said its members were saddened by the news. “It is with deep sadness that Stellenbosch FC has learnt of the untimely passing of promising young defender Oshwin Andries. “The club is not in a position to provide further information at this stage and asks that his family’s privacy is respected at this difficult time of bereavement.” Andries was a gifted footballer who graduated from the Stellenbosch Football Academy to make his professional debut at the age of 18. The club said he became their youngest-ever goal-scorer in the DStv Premiership and captained South Africa at the recent U-20 Afcon Cosafa qualifiers. “His presence, both on the pitch and off it, will be sorely missed,” the club said. Andries captained the South Africa under-20 national team at the recent Afcon Cosafa qualifiers. Attempts to get comment from the bereaved family were declined on Sunday. The Premier Soccer League posted on Twitter: “The PSL is shocked and saddened by the untimely passing of young Stellenbosch FC defender, Oshwin Andries. “The League sends heartfelt condolences to the Andries family, Stellenbosch FC, and the football fraternity at large.” Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC Anroux Marais described Andries as “a young man who had a bright future ahead of him”. “He was an absolute example of what can be achieved when young people make positive choices in their lives and follow their passion. “He came through the ranks of the Academy system and became his club’s youngest-ever goal-scorer in the DSTV Premiership. He also captained the South African team at the recent u/20 Afcon Cosafa qualifiers.” Police spokesperson, Nowonga Sukwana, said Andries succumbed to his stab wound after his family transported him to hospital. “He passed away in hospital on Saturday night after his family took him to the hospital. He was treated for a stab wound and released and then his family took him to hospital again last night, where he passed on. “Circumstances around his stabbing are still under investigation,” said Sukwana. Cape Times