Cape Town – Blossom Street Primary School pupil Umar Jones’ tale about battling bullies was announced as the winner of the 2022 Story Stars competition. Education MEC David Maynier visited the Athlone school to celebrate Umar as the 2022 winner and to premiere the next instalment of “Story Stars: The adventures of Felix and Felicity”, which now includes Umar as a character alongside Felix and Felicity. It features Felix and Felicity and their ongoing adventures. The stories come directly from the creative minds of Western Cape Grade 4 learners, with new characters being introduced each year. The winner of the annual competition has the chance to narrate and star in his/her own story. This is animated and included in an ongoing film about the adventures of Felix and Felicity, which is introduced to the new cohort of Grade 4 learners each year. “Umar was approached discreetly at the end of last year so that we could record his voice for the animated film that was revealed today,” Maynier said. Umar’s story, “Battling the Bully”, has a unifying and important message about bullying. It was also very creative, with new imaginative characters, such as Ashtastic the flying unicorn, which the animators were very excited to animate. Felix is also seen rapping for the first time. “But importantly, the story was also chosen because of Umar’s use of the correct punctuation, spelling and vocabulary throughout his submission,” Maynier said. “I also congratulate his teacher, Ms Andrea Liddle, for inspiring her class to participate and produce such good creative writing skills, and his former principal, Mr Davids who has since retired.” The top 6 entries for 2022: Umar Jones - Blossom Street Primary Blair Davids - Northwood Primary Kenzo Segals - Rietenbosch Primêr Chesnay Petersen - Balvenie Primary Nkaximlo Mandindi - Blossom Street Primary Talia Alexander - Blossom Street Primary Umar follows in the footsteps of the 2020 Story Stars winner, from Philadelphia Primary School, Keschrie Booysen, and 2021 winner Xia Du Toit, from Laerskool Mikro. The 2023 cohort of Grade 4 learners in the Western Cape can now write the next instalment of Felix and Felicity’s adventures. Teachers are encouraged to help their learners read the story booklet, which has been provided to schools, watch the animation film, and then finish the story by including themselves as a character. Teachers have been provided with a matrix to assist them with marking the creative story and must submit the winning entry from their class to the Department by April 14, this year. In addition to writing, starring in and narrating the video, the Story Stars winner received a tablet, book bag and branded stationery. The winning school also receives R10 000 for learning and teaching support material. Cape Times