Cape Town - The Department of Basic Education (DBE) has identified the Western Cape and Gauteng as the provinces experiencing the most pressure from a spike in applications from parents moving their children from independent schools to public schools. According to the department, this is due to financial distress, as parents who previously opted for independent schools, were now returning to public schools due to affordability. The department said other challenges plaguing the two provinces included incomplete application submissions; fraudulent proof of residence; schools in high-pressure areas being over-subscribed; and limited infrastructure and unavailability of land. The DBE briefed the portfolio committee on basic education on Tuesday about the readiness for the 2023 school academic year. DBE director-general Mathanzima Mweli said: “We have experienced some level of challenges in all nine provinces. However, one of the main reasons we have experienced unprecedented pressure in the Gauteng province and Western Cape is due to economic hardships. “Middle-class parents are moving their children away from private schools to public schools and inward migration. I have been informed of positive news that the Western Cape has drastically reduced the number of learners unplaced for 2023.” This comes as the portfolio committee is on the ground conducting oversight visits to schools across the country. Last week, they visited schools in three districts in KwaZulu-Natal. Deputy director-general Simone Geyer said the readiness for the academic year concerned factors including pupil admissions, and the availability of teachers and infrastructure. “There are a number of mitigation measures for the provinces, including allocation of funds to identified schools to build 878 additional brick and mortar classrooms in Gauteng, and 842 in the Western Cape. “Also, the establishment of eight satellite schools to accommodate unplaced applicants, and increased school capacities to include the use of specialist rooms. “The Gauteng province might, in some areas, consider platooning as an interim measure to alleviate overcrowding,” said Geyer. In the platoon system, two schools share one building, with one school having afternoon classes. DA MP Anna van Zyl requested the department to share details about how it will ensure pupils who remained unplaced would not be left behind. “It’s a month into the academic year and many serious concerns were raised that the department failed to prepare sufficiently for the year despite them issuing statements to the contrary. While late applications can account for the issues of overcrowding and late learner placements, it doesn’t account for teacher shortages, infrastructure problems and a number of safety concerns across the country.” She questioned whether the department recorded reasons for drop-outs in each grade, and if they followed up on pupils if they didn’t return to school. ANC MP Patamedi Moroatshehla commended the department. “There are a lot of improvements that still need to be done in schools. We saw that during our oversight visit. There are unnecessary shortfalls from the department, however, we need to appreciate the efforts made.” Cape Times