Cape Town – Officials from the City of Cape Town’s health department are joining a national campaign to curb a measles outbreak. The campaign, from 6 February to 31 March, comes in the wake of a measles outbreak in five provinces. The Western Cape has not experienced a measles outbreak, but there have been five reported cases in the province, the City said.  According to the NICD, a measles outbreak is classified as three or more confirmed laboratory measles cases reported within 30 days of the onset of disease, in a district. Children between the ages of six months and 14 years and 11 months will receive an additional measles vaccination at schools, crèches and City of Cape Town clinics, the City said in a statement on Sunday. “The measles vaccine is very effective at preventing measles, especially when there is a high level of population coverage (over 92% coverage is needed to prevent outbreaks). “Currently, children receive the first measles vaccination at the age of six months and the second one at 12 months, as part of the national immunisation schedule.  “However, some children do not receive these vaccinations for a host of reasons.  “The result is that, every few years there is an outbreak, sometimes even a full-blown epidemic.  “While we have a good vaccination programme in our country, to ensure adequate vaccine coverage and to prevent outbreaks or epidemics, vaccination campaigns, such as this one, are conducted,” said mayco member for community services and health Patricia Van der Ross. In the coming days, City Health staff will visit schools and crèches to drop off the measles campaign pamphlets and consent forms. If a child is absent on vaccination day, parents or caregivers can take the child to their nearest clinic where the additional measles vaccine will be administered. “The measles vaccine is safe and effective, and provides lifelong immunity against the disease.  “We can protect our children from serious complications such as diarrhoea, dehydration, middle ear infection, brain infection (encephalitis), blindness and even death.  “The vaccine is free at all City clinics,” Van der Ross added. From 3 October 2022 to 21 January 2023, 406 laboratory-confirmed cases were reported in five provinces with declared measles outbreaks. This figure excludes the five cases recently confirmed in the Western Cape. Measles symptoms include: –  A high fever –  Runny nose –  Cough –  Red and watery eyes –  A rash that starts appearing after the fever. It looks like small, red, flat spots and starts on the face and upper neck. The rash fades after 5 or 6 days Tips to care for a child at home who may have measles: –  Keep your child away from other people until the rash has cleared up for four days –  Keep the room dark where your child is resting –  Make sure they drink lots of clean water –  Eat healthy, fresh foods If your child experiences any major discomfort as a result of the vaccine, visit the nearest doctor or clinic. Cape Times