Cape Town - An ANC Overstrand councillor, described as someone who had a bright future in politics, was stabbed in the chest and killed at the weekend after an alleged argument with a suspect who is yet to be arrested. The stabbing comes weeks after the wife of ANC MP Edward Njadu, Lydia, was murdered in Beaufort West when at least three armed gunmen arrived at her residence and shot at the 55-year-old after a brief discussion. Overstrand councillor, Simphiwe Silo, died on Monday morning outside his home after collapsing by the gate. Police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi said Hermanus police responded to a complaint at about 2.45am. “Upon arrival at the scene in Zwelihle they found the body of a 33-year-old man who (had) sustained stab wounds to his body. “The victim was declared dead on the scene by the medical personnel. The suspects are yet to be arrested,” he said. According to Swartbooi, the motive for the attack was a possible argument. “The Western Cape provincial detectives are probing the circumstances leading to the incident and are investigating a murder.” Overstrand Municipality spokesperson, Riana Steenekamp, confirmed that he was an ANC councillor for Ward 5. “He was a ‘new’ councillor who joined the municipality in November 2021,” she said. Overstrand ANC chief whip, Connie Tafu-Nwonkwo, said Silo was about to return to work after he had been on sick leave for a while. “I received a call about the devastating news past 1am. “As his colleagues and the community we are shocked. “According to reports there was an argument between (him) and another man a few metres from his house. “This led to him being stabbed in the chest and leg. He rushed inside his home to report that he was wounded, his family were preparing to rush him to hospital. “While they were outside he complained about feeling weak. He collapsed and died. “I arrived later at the scene, and his body was still there. “The incident happened just when he was about to return to work after being sick,” said Tafu-Nwonkwo. She described Silo as a passionate person who was loved by many. “He was young, vibrant and full of life. He knew how to put his community first and served them. “That is why this is a loss that has affected many people, he is also a former pastor. “He contributed a lot to the party and gave solutions,” said Tafu-Nwonkwo. “No matter what the alleged argument was about, no one has a right to take someone’s life. Heartfelt condolences to the family.” Mayor Annelie Rabie also sent a message of condolences to the family and community. Last month in Gauteng, former ANC ward councillor in Emfuleni, Abel Pontsho Seshauke, 58, was killed in his vehicle at Evaton when Vaal Triangle suspects opened fire on his vehicle. A few days after that, ANC councillor Sbonelo Mthembu, 36 and two other men died in a volley of bullets in Long Homes, Piet Retief in Mpumalanga. Two days after Mthembu’s murder, Mpumalanga ANC councillor Sabelo Nhleko was ambushed, shot and killed along with his friend and a car mechanic at Longhomes Township near the Piet Retief town. Anyone with information about the incidents can anonymously call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Cape Times