1933, Lofob has brought independence to hundreds of thousands of blind residents in the Western Cape and beyond. Cape Town - The legacy of a visually-impaired man who had a passion to bring much needed services to the blind, celebrates its 90th anniversary this week. An accomplished violinist, piano tuner and endowed with a fine singing voice, the late co-founder of League of Friends of the Blind (Lofob), Isaac Jacobs’s passion and dedication for a school for black and coloured children has solidly cemented its foundation in Grassy Park, but its impacts are found far beyond this community. The history books of the organisation, which started as a charity tells that Jacobs, together with late co-founder Arthur Blaxall, established Lofob, as Jacobs – himself a blind person – could not attend the only school for blind children in the Western Cape, because he was not of the privileged white minority. Now, 90 years later, the footprint of Jacobs and Blaxall’s efforts to integrate the blind into society has seen thousands of clients from all over the Western Cape walk through Lofob’s doors to start their journey of inclusion and independence. Philippi resident and Lofob client, Asanda Lingisi, 32, now studying to become a social worker, has been blind for 10 years after doctors found brain pressure on her optic nerves. “At that time I had never seen a young blind person and it caused me stress. I lost hope and had anger. Until my social worker referred me to Lofob where I was assisted for rehabilitation, independence and daily living skills. “I got trained, but it was not easy. I had to learn new techniques of doing things. But I managed to learn through the motivation of other young blind people in the adjustment support group where we shared similar stories.  “I saw there is life after going blind and it’s not the end of the world. I went on to ask assistance through Lofob to write my matric exams. “I was successful in then getting an internship as a skills developer and that’s when my new life started earning an income,” said Lingisi. Lofob treasurer and anniversary celebration spokesperson, Philip Bam, said the organisation’s services are grounded in the belief that blind people should not be excluded from mainstream society. “(The late) Jacobs walked around Grassy Park and he could move around with no training, unlike us who have mobility training today. “He was a leader in the community and as a blind person, he led in various aspects. “For Jacobs, it was always about what he could do for blind children. It was never about the individual, but rather adding value to the community,” said Bam. In present day, Lofob now celebrates the establishment of supported living for indigent blind people, the implementation of a world class Early Childhood Development service and its comprehensive Independence Development Programme for Youth and Adults. These programmes have assisted an array of clients as causes of blindness have shifted, with youth being assisted to complete their formal schooling, through night school and correspondence, said Bam. “We are very focussed on integrating the blind back into society because back in the day, the blind used to be isolated from society as their needs were so complex and families would rather not bring them out. But we believe in changing society’s attitude towards the blind and therefore are so focussed on independence development and personal growth. “We do not need to isolate the blind into a community of their own. We have assisted many clients through schooling and tertiary education, as technology has changed and the blind now have easier access to information and they can now teach, type and read braille,” said Bam. Bam and the late Jacobs were both recipients of the prestigious R W Bowen Medal for Meritorious Service to the Blind People. Support organisation, Friends of Lofob’s representative, Ike Arendse, 84, said it was an exciting time to celebrate the works of the organisation for which they often did outreach such as “winter comforts” by supplying warm clothing and food, social activities and annual Christmas lunches. “I got involved to Lofob about 50 years ago when my dad, known as Oom Awie, also served for Lofob. “For me it has always just been a joy to assist and serve the visually impaired. I don’t work for repayment, I work for blessings,” said Arendse. Being hard hit during the pandemic, Arendse said they were “tremendously impacted”. “Covid had tremendously impacted our outreach and it was difficult not being able to render our support to the people. “It was a very difficult period and tough time. It is amazing and a blessing that we could make it out of that period and now we can celebrate together,” said Arendse. Recently-elected Lofob executive director, Shahiemah Edwards, who has been an integral part of the organisation since 1984, said she looks forward to “great things” this year. “For me it is a great privilege and honour to be in the position I serve in now for the organisation. It has also been a privilege to see the organisation grow to what it is now, having grown from being a small hostel. We have great plans for this year and going into the future and how the organisation is going to be ever-evolving as it has done over the years,” said Edwards. A Thanksgiving church service will take place on Sunday, February 5 at the Methodist Church, 2nd Avenue, Grassy Park at 9am, where founder Isaac Jacobs served as a lay preacher. If you would like to get in touch with Lofob, Bam can be contacted on 083 658 3885 or 021 705 3753. Cape Times * The Cape Times’ Big Friday Read is a series of feature articles focusing on the forgotten issues that often disappear in the blur of fast news cycles, and where we also feature the everyday heroes who go out of their way to change the lives of others in their communities. To nominate a hero or raise a forgotten issue you would like us to feature in our Big Friday Read, email ctnews@inl.co.za