Two convicted rapists, one from Delft and another from Plettenberg Bay, were each handed hefty prison sentences this week. Delft serial rapist, Mthetheleli Makhanda, 24, was handed five life terms after being sentenced in the Wynberg Regional Court on Tuesday. In Plettenberg Bay, Luthando Madoda, will serve an effective 20 years direct imprisonment as he was found guilty of raping his victim twice after dragging her into a field. Makhanda was convicted on six counts of rape, two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances, and two counts of housebreaking with intent to commit an offence. Police spokesperson, Ndakhe Gwala, said SAPS management thanked the investigation team for their work. “The Western Cape SAPS management hails the Provincial Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit for the successful conviction of Makhanda.  In 2016, (Makhanda) raped a 42-year-old woman in Nyanga. He had asked the victim, who was acquainted with him, for her house keys, claiming he wanted to take a nap. “As she opened the room, the suspect got inside and grabbed her, pushing her to the bed and he raped her. In 2017, between September 20 and November 5, the accused raped two children aged 11, and a 37-year-old woman. The suspect found an 11-year-old girl alone in her Gugulethu home at around 4.30pm. “He asked for water and the unsuspecting victim let him in. Once he was inside, he grabbed a knife, threatening the child. Then he raped her,” said Gwala. Court details delved into a number of other instances where Makhanda violated his victims. In another incident, he entered the home of a 37-year-old woman in Gugulethu at around 12.15pm demanding money and a cellphone. He locked her 8-year-old son in the toilet and raped the woman. “He used the same modus operandi in Delft with another 11-year-old victim, who was home alone. “He knocked and she opened the door, when he pulled out a knife and raped her. “Makhanda was arrested in 2019 after DNA evidence linked him to all the cases. “A strong case was built by the investigating officer Detective Captain Wendell Taudie of the Provincial FCS and his team, while the suspect remained in custody,” said Gwala. Anti-gender- based violence organisation, Ilitha Labantu spokesperson, Siyabulela Monakali said they welcomed the sentences, but were concerned that had it not been for DNA evidence, the accused would still be roaming freely. “Considering the challenges with the DNA backlog and for instance, if this was one of those cases affected by the backlog, the perpetrator may have been released. We would like to ensure that proper mechanisms are in place to lock up perpetrators,” said Monakale. In the Plettenberg Bay matter, National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson, Eric Ntabazalila, said the court heard that Madoda met a woman on the street at night, dragged her to a field and raped her twice in kwaNokuthula. Madoda pleaded not guilty to both counts and testified in his defence that he met the woman on the evening of August 26, 2017. According to Madoda they had consensual sex after they both went willingly to his brother’s room. “The prosecutor, Johan Erasmus proved to the court that Madoda’s version was a lie as he led the victim in her testimony. “She told the court that she was at a local tavern on August 26, 2017 and left the establishment at 11pm. “She was slightly intoxicated. She met the accused along the road, and attempted to avoid him by walking slower, stopping, and pretending to call her friends. He started a conversation, took out a knife, and threatened to stab her if she screamed. She feared for her safety and complied,” said Ntabazalila. Cape Times