Cape Town - An EFF member is claiming R5 million in damages from a resident who recently pleaded guilty to assaulting him during a violent protest outside the Brackenfell High School in 2020. The violent clashes between residents and EFF protesters outside the school were triggered by reports of a matric dance that was only attended by white pupils. Jaco Pretorius was caught on video in a violent confrontation with EFF member Luvuyo Ntakana. Pretorius was arrested following the incident and charged with assault. He is also reported to have allegedly fired a gun in the air during the protest. He pleaded guilty to the charges and paid a R2 000 fine. In papers filed through his lawyers, Gardee Godrich Attorneys, Ntakane said Pretorius infringed on his human rights. “Your conduct inflicted immense physical pain and violated the bodily integrity of our client. You have shocked the family and the nation. “You have traumatised our client and his family, defamed his name, rendered his person less of a human being, and committed crimen injuria, all pursuant to racial prejudices. “In the circumstances, we are instructed to demand as we hereby do, that you should pay a total amount of R5 000 000 (R5 million) which amount is in respect of the damages caused to  he body and name of our client as alluded to above,“ read the letter. They demanded the amount to be paid within 20 days. Ntakana said he had driven EFF supporters to attend a meeting with the school when he was assaulted. He said the group had hurled insults at him, including racial slurs and even nicked his beret during the confrontation. “They assaulted and humiliated me and the videos of the assault were shared all over social media. Even now my children are still traumatised because they have seen the videos. I am suing them and we will meet them in court,” he said. A lawyer representing Pretorius, Millie Westley confirmed her client has received the letter of demand. “Mr Jaco Pretorius received a letter of demand from Gardee Godrich Attorneys, informing him that Mr Luvuyo Ntakane is demanding payment in the sum of R5 000 000 within 20 days for damages that he supposedly suffered as a result of the alleged assault on him allegedly perpetrated by Mr Pretorius. The letter contains shocking and defaming allegations against Mr Pretorius as well as the white citizens of the country. It is only a letter of demand and at this stage and it will be treated with the disdain it deserves,” she said. Cape Times