Cape Town - Correctional Services national commissioner, Makgothi Thobakgale, said the battle against drugs has infiltrated correctional centres, as he called on communities to work with them in the war against drugs. According to Thobakgale, it was critical that intelligence platforms be created to tackle “those destroying our societies”. Thobakgale was speaking at a Correctional Services Imbizo in Vanrhynsdorp, in the West Coast District Municipality on Sunday. The event was held at the Thusong Service Centre, where he and other officials engaged with residents on the issue of drug abuse and drug smuggling. The event was held at the Thusong Service Centre, where he and other officials engaged with residents on the issue of drug abuse and drug smuggling. “It is crucial that we engage and work together as we seek to find solutions that will protect us as people and take our country forward. “Of course, there are many other challenges facing South Africa that we attend to on a continuous basis, however, we have chosen this day to dedicate our efforts in attending to substance abuse that is breeding many social ills, and destroying our communities. “In the majority, it is young people who are targeted and we have seen many not only getting into jail, but families being destroyed,” he said. According to Thobakgale, the correctional system was housing more than 42 000 young people who were 35-years old and younger. He said more disturbing was that some have become habitual offenders. “It is thus prudent that we seek real solutions not just as Correctional Services, nor the community of Vanrhynsdorp but us working as one. Even more embarrassing is when law enforcement officials become agents of drug dealers.  We often conduct search operations in our centres and the amount of drugs we confiscate indicates that some in our ranks are no longer correctional officials, but agents working against the state. “Catching an official in full uniform attempting to smuggle drugs troubles not just the soul, but my well-being. “When one of our officials was caught packaging drugs to the value of R1.2 million, we were once more reminded that our communities are not safe,” said Thobakgale. Last month, 41-year-old Lungelwa Mantshinga, a correctional services’ official working at the Vanrhynsdorp correctional centre, was caught at her place of residence allegedly packaging mandrax tablets and tik with a street value of over R1.2 million, assisted by her 20-year old daughter. The Mantshingas have been appearing in court along with Congolese national Donat Mukundama, 33, and Leroy Adams, 21, for dealing in drugs. Thobakgale said the Department of Social Development was working closely with investigators. “We further commit that correctional officials in the pockets of drug dealers have no space in the correctional system, and will be dealt with harshly,” he said. Cape Times