Cape Town - As the country confirmed two cases of cholera, South African health authorities have urged are the public to be vigilant. The confirmed cases involve sisters who had travelled together from Johannesburg to Malawi to attend a funeral service, and returned by bus on January 30. Both developed symptoms on their return. Cholera is an acute enteric (caused by as viruses, bacteria and parasites) infection caused by the bacteria vibrio cholerae, and outbreaks usually occur in settings with inadequate sanitation and insufficient access to safe drinking water.  Health minister Dr Joe Phaahla said: “One patient presented to a local clinic and was then admitted to hospital. During the case investigation and follow-up of close contacts, the sister reported that she also developed diarrhoea whilst travelling back from Malawi but it resolved within a day and she did not seek health care.  “A close contact (household family member) of one of the cases/patients was admitted to hospital on 4 February with diarrhoea and dehydration, and is considered a possible case. Laboratory test results are pending and follow-up of close contacts is ongoing.” Authorities said thta symptoms range from mild to severe and watery diarrhoea and dehydration. The incubation period - the period from when the person ingests cholera-contaminated water/food to when they first become ill - ranges from a few hours to 5 days, usually 2 to 3 days. Most persons infected with cholera will experience mild illness or not feel ill. “The department is working closely with the affected province, the National Institute for Communicable Diseases and World Health Organization to closely monitor the situation. All people experiencing symptoms such as diarrhoea and dehydration, with or without travel history to cholera outbreak countries are urged to report at their nearest health facilities for health screening and early detection,” added Phaahla. South Africa is not endemic for cholera, and the last outbreak was in 2008/9 with about 12 000 cases reported. That resulted from an outbreak in Zimbabwe which led to surge of imported cases and subsequent local transmission in Mpumalanga and Limpopo provinces through contaminated water. The health officials at the ports of entry, especially land and air, will remain on alert for travellers arriving from countries experiencing cholera outbreak, the minister added. Cape Times