Cape Town - A 28-year-old man was shot and killed and another wounded following violent clashes over land invasions in Paarl this week. Police have urged the public to come forward with information about the man’s killing. Violence broke out on Tuesday afternoon when law enforcement agencies arrived in Paarl East to quell tensions in the community after a number of informal structures were demolished at Rooiland, Magnolia. This, after a group of land occupiers started erecting shacks on Rooiland at the weekend, upsetting residents from an adjacent community. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said police are investigating a murder case and confirmed another person had been injured by a rubber bullet. “According to reports, a 28-year-old man was taken to a nearby hospital with gunshot wounds to the upper body. “He was declared dead on arrival, and a second person also arrived with alleged rubber bullets wounds at the hospital. “The circumstances surrounding the incident are under investigation. No arrests have been made yet,” said Van Wyk. In a statement, the Drakenstein Municipality said it was aware of the fatality, which occurred after days of response to the illegal land invasion. “Last week, Rooiland (in Paarl East) became the target of illegal land occupants. “In response to various complaints from the adjacent community, Drakenstein acted swiftly. “After two attempts over the weekend, which were partly successful, a successful joint operation was executed this morning to deal with this matter. “Since (Tuesday) morning, various allegations have been circulating on social media regarding a fatal injury, which has now been confirmed by the SAPS. “The municipality is shocked by the news and extends our deepest condolences to the family members and friends,” the municipality said. It has distanced itself from the shooting incident. “The municipality can however confirm that when our law enforcement officers departed from the site, there was no indication of any volatile interaction between the various role-players. “Our law enforcement officers and safety partners followed a minimum force approach,” Drakenstein Municipality said. In a Facebook live feed by community activist, Edgar Jantjies, however, showed a tense stand-off between law enforcement authorities. Shots can be heard and stones are pelted at the authorities. According to reports, law enforcement together with the SAPS and private security company Vetus Schola attended to the situation. Enquiries to Vetus Schola were not answered by deadline on  Wednesday. Police have urged anyone with information relating to the incident to contact Crime Stop anonymously on 08600 10111 or via the MySAPS app.