Cape Town - The family of slain ANC Overstrand councillor, Simphiwe Silo, has expressed relief at the news that police have arrested two suspects in connection with his murder. They are expected to appear in the Hermanus Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday on murder charges. Silo, who was the councillor for Ward 5, died early on Monday morning outside his home after he was stabbed in the chest. According to police spokesperson, Joseph Swartbooi, Silo was found dead at about 2.45am. “The body of a 33-year-old man sustained stab wounds to his body. The victim was declared deceased on the scene by the medical personnel. We can confirm that the investigating team arrested two males aged 35 and 40,” said Swartbooi. He said Western Cape detectives were still probing the circumstances leading to the murder. Silo’s aunt, Nothuthuzelo Kune, told the Cape Times that though they could not bring their loved one back, the arrest would bring some sort of closure and hope that justice will prevail. “As a family, we welcome this swift arrest. There are many families who are still waiting for perpetrators to be found after they lost their loved ones in similar incidents. Police members who identified themselves as Cape Town investigating officers visited and informed us that they were handling the case. Later we were told about the arrest. This will bring a level of peace. We want to see the law take its course,” said Kune. She said the incident was due to an alleged argument. “I live in a neighbouring township. Other family members called me on Monday morning after the incident and I rushed to the scene. This is a very difficult and challenging time for Simphiwe’s widow and his child. We are all still trying to figure out what really happened. The family met on Monday and we agreed that the funeral will be next week. We still have to discuss if we will go to court but I’m willing to go,” said Kune. Messages of condolences have been pouring in for the family on social media. The young councillor joined the Overstrand Municipality in November 2021. The Land Party called for police to leave no stone unturned, as it claimed Silo was concerned about his life and safety. It said the alleged killers were well known. Cape Times