Cape Town - The ANC on the West Coast is calling for the recommendations of a 2020 forensic investigation report into various breaches of municipal policies, including potential nepotism in the appointment of senior officials in the Matzikama Municipality, to be implemented. Among the allegations probed was the appointment of Andrew Koopman into the administrative portfolio of the municipality. Koopman is the son of the current deputy mayor, Amelia Job. The report also looked into possible violations of the municipality’s supply chain and recruitment and appointment policies, and other related employment conditions. The report found the appointment of Koopman to the administrative portfolio in 2018 was unlawful.  “Koopman was indicated on the initial shortlisting of applicants as not having the requisite qualification for the post,” read the report. Of the five candidates interviewed for the position, there was initially only one applicant that qualified, according to the report. The report recommended the municipality consider the removal of Koopman from the post on the basis of the irregularities pointed out. In another matter probed, it was found that there were 23 instances of employees having a familial relation with officials employed at the municipality. In a previous statement, the municipality said the report was “questionable”. “The report of the forensic investigator is questionable, and the investigator is not beyond reproach,” they said. The ANC, however, said there were motives to “bury” the report by the current DA-led leadership. ANC West Coast regional spokesperson, Tshepiso Segaecho, said the report was tabled by the new council and set aside by the mayor for further scrutiny, however nothing has been done to date. “Matzikama continues to conduct its affairs unconstitutionally and we have raised matters of gross misconduct in the forensic report conducted in 2021, the DA-led municipality has suppressed these findings as most of the maladministration was conducted during its term in office.  To date, the forensic report remains a document to bring justice to residents of Matzikama and the DA-led coalition continues to protect its own at the expense of the residents of the local municipality. “We further have been cautioned that the executive mayor is unwell and is off sick, and the municipality has given the local residents no comment on a possible acting mayor,“ Segaecho said. ANC Matzikama caucus chief whip, Johan Muller said: “I have requested that this public document be released to the new council since it served before the previous council so that we can interrogate this document and act. “However, since these ones who govern today are highly implicated, they are trying to bury this report, so much so that they went to a different auditing firm in Vredendal and handed them the very same report and instructed them to make alternate findings.” Local Government MEC, Anton Bredell's spokesperson, Wouter Kriel said: “Minister Bredell has received the letter in question, and instructed his department to study the report and the allegations made. “It is the responsibility of council to give effect to the recommendations contained in the report.” To establish the progress with the recommendations, the Minister will address the mayor on the same. Meanwhile, he has requested assess the contents of the report.” The municipality did not respond to requests for comment by deadline on Tuesday. Cape Times