Cape Town - The Cape of Good Hope SPCA has slapped a “hostile” Tygerdal resident with animal cruelty charges, following a complaint over nine cats in filthy, flea-infested conditions in her home. The rescue follows after the SPCA received a complaint from a resident about a house full of cats in poor condition. It was also reported that the house was extremely dirty inside and that cats could be seen sitting in the windows, scratching themselves. Inspectors of the SPCA responded to the Tygerdal property to investigate. SPCA spokesperson Marisol Gutierrez said they could not gain access to the property as no one was at home. A warning was left for the owner to contact the SPCA within 24 hours. “The owner responded to the warning. Upon their arrival, the two Inspectors were met by a very hostile owner and her husband, who initially refused them access to the house. After the owner’s husband was advised that a court order would be obtained if he did not cooperate and grant our Inspectors access, he then proceeded to allow them into the house. “Upon entering the house, their nostrils were attacked by a strong, overwhelming smell of filth and urine. The Inspectors found the cats living in filth, and they were infested with fleas. Some of the cats required veterinary care. The living conditions were far from ideal for both the cats and the humans inhabiting the house,“ she said. A written warning was issued to the owner to provide the cats with veterinary care, treat the cats for external parasites and clean the living conditions. The owner did not comply with the warning, resulting in the SPCA having to obtain a court order to enter the property and seize all nine cats. Adding to the poor conditions, Gutierrez said all the windows and curtains were closed in the house, with no light or fresh air being allowed into the house. “A written warning was issued to the owner to provide the cats with veterinary care, treat the cats for external parasites and clean the living conditions. Sadly, the owner did not comply with the warning that was issued. This resulted in Werner having to obtain a court order to enter the property and seize all nine cats,” she said.  One of the cats died and four others had to be humanely euthanised due to their poor condition. SPCA Inspector Werner Taljaard recalled the gruesome discovery when they visited the residence. “The house was extremely dirty. The smell inside the house was very bad. Urine and faeces were seen on the floor and furniture. I cannot understand how any person can live in such filth,” he said.  The owner will now be facing charges of animal cruelty in terms of the Animals Protection Act 71 of 1962. Animal Welfare Society of South Africa spokesperson Allan Perrins said they have experienced similar frustrations and ruses by owners attempting to prevent them from executing their duty. “A recent case in point involved a grandmother who tried to bamboozle our inspector when he arrived to confiscate her dogs. While the occupants of the house kept him talking she did a runner, thinking that she would get away with being held accountable,” he said. The public is urged to report any animal cruelty on 021 700 4158/9.  Cape Times Now watch: