Cape Town - The Gugulethu Sports Council (GSC) has blamed the City’s alleged negligence for their dilapidated recreation facilities, including swimming pools that's been empty for more than five years. Disgruntled residents have now given the City until March 31 to announce plans and time frames to revamp the sports and recreational facilities. GSC secretary Vusi Ntoni said, following inspection and investigations, it pained them to see how other communities’ recreational facilities were being repaired and upgraded while their area had remained the same for years.  “The community of Gugulethu is crying. Their facility status core is very bad and needs the City’s attention urgently. “The stadiums are vandalised, the sports halls are invaded, and the swimming pools have been closed for years. “Crime is high because children don’t have a proper place to play or gym. “We want back our consumption facilities, sport and recreation is our right. Gugulethu deserves better,” said Ntoni. About two weeks ago, residents held a meeting that was followed by a demonstration to highlight their plight. A memorandum of grievances has also been emailed to Mayco member for Community Services and Health, Patricia van der Ross. The community demands the immediate opening of the NY117 and NY62 swimming pools, and that they be improved to include the capacity to host winter games. “The Luyolo community hall of NY126 has been invaded for about five years now. There is no fencing for some play areas, thus they are not safe, and the turf at NY74 is not maintained and this is a huge risk for children. “What is supposed to be a sporting field at NY95 is a mess and the change rooms have become a haven for criminals,” said the GSC. “The field is not maintained, there is no fencing or lights. We need transparency and coordination of a collaborated and integrated approach to sport and recreation in Gugulethu, with the City’s MMC responsible for this portfolio,” the GSC said. “City officials must commit to standing quarterly meetings with GSC and related structures. All the facilities must be restored, reconstructed, renovated and brought to their proper and reputable state using the adjustment budget that the City is busy with of the 2022/23 allocation, and further allocate funds in the upcoming 2023/24 budget to complete all these.” Van der Ross confirmed receiving the memorandum. “We take the community’s concerns very seriously and a meeting has been scheduled with all relevant parties in the next week where the matters raised in the petition will be discussed in detail.” Cape Times