Cape Town - Embattled ANC MPL Andile Lili has been suspended from the party after being referred to the Provincial Parliament’s Conduct Committee relating to criminal charges he faces. Lili, who appeared in the Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court last week on charges of assaulting the principal of Inkanini Primary School – a woman – has been suspended with immediate effect. ANC provincial spokesperson, Sifiso Mtsweni, confirmed Lili’s suspension. “The interim provincial committee (IPC) has invoked the step-asiden guidelines to Lili for him to attend to his court case. He will remain on step aside as a member of the ANC IPC . We are engaging the ANC caucus on further steps as it relates to his role in the legislature. We will follow proceedings as it relates to the conduct committee’s work on this matter,” said Mtsweni. Last week, DA MPL Ricardo Mackenzie, said they had also reported Lili to the Conduct Committee. Lili serves as chairperson of the school governing body. “Lili appeared in the Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court after the principal filed a case at Harare police station. If the events of November 21 are true, it would not be the first time this year that Lili has crossed paths with the criminal justice system. “While we wait for the law to run its course, we call on the ANC to uphold the integrity of our parliament and subject their member to its disciplinary processes,” said Mackenzie. Attempts to get comment from Lili and his legal team were unsuccessful. Khayelitsha community activist, Thulani Dasa said: “We are glad the ANC has finally come to its senses about Lili. The community is overwhelmed by its decision. This will ensure that Lili doesn’t continue to abuse his power and manipulate fair processes at Nkanini Primary school.” Lili is due back in court on February 8 relating to the assault charges. Lili is also facing sentencing after he was recently convicted at the Bellville Magistrate’s Court on two counts of attending illegal gatherings outside the Bellville Magistrate’s Court on August 12, 2014 and July 28, 2015 and inciting members of Ses’khona People’s Movement to kill. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said parties will argue in mitigation and aggravation on March 2 and 3 in sentencing procedures. Cape Times